DDOs (DID Descriptor Objects) If a DID is the index key in a key-value pair, then the DDO is the value to which the index key points. The combination of a DID and its associated DDO forms the root identity record for a decentralized identity. A DDO MUST be a single JSON object conforming to RFC 7159 . For purposes of this version of the DID specification, the format of this JSON object is specified in JSON-LD , a format for mapping JSON data into the RDF semantic graph model as defined by the W3C JSON-LD 1.0 specification . Future versions of this specification MAY specify other semantic graph formats for a DDO such as JXD (JSON XDI Data), a serialization format for the XDI graph model . The following sections define the properties of this JSON object, including whether these properties are required or optional. Context (Required) JSON objects in JSON-LD format must include a JSON-LD context statement. The rules for this statement are: A DDO MUST have exactly one top- level context statement. This statement MUST be the first line in the JSON object. (This is not strictly necessary under JSON-LD but required for DDOs.) The key for this property MUST be @context. The value of this key MUST be the URL for the generic DID context as specified in Appendix B. Example (using an example URL): { "@context": "https://example.org/did/v1" } DID method specifications MAY define their own JSON-LD contexts. However it is NOT RECOMMENDED to define a new context unless necessary to properly implement the method. Method-specific contexts MUST NOT override the terms defined in the generic DID context listed in Appendix B. Primary DID (Required) The primary DID is the primary index key for the DDO, i.e., it is DID described by DDO. The rules for a primary DID are: A DDO MUST have exactly one primary DID. The key for this property MUST be id. The value of this key MUST be a valid DID. When this DDO is registered with the target distributed ledger or network, the registered DID MUST match this primary DID value. Example: { "id": "did:example:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp" } Guardian (Required If No Proof of Ownership) A guardian is an identity owner who creates and maintains an identity record for a dependent who is not in a position to hold or control the necessary cryptographic keys (e.g., a parent creating an identity record for a child). In this case, there are no owner keys to represent the ultimate identity owner. So the DDO needs to assert the identity of the guardian. The rules for a guardian are: A DDO that includes an owner (section 6.4) MAY have a guardian. A DDO that does not include an owner MUST have a guardian. The key for this property MUST be guardian. The value of this key MUST be a valid DID. The guardian DID MUST resolve to a DDO that has an owner property, i.e., the guardian relationships must not be nested. Example: { "guardian": "did:example:8uQhQMGzWxR8vw5P3UWH1j" } Proof of Ownership (Required If No Guardian) Proof of Ownership is the mechanism by which an identity owner can cryptographically prove ownership of a DID and DDO by virtue of publishing a set of public key or verification key descriptions. See section 9.2. Note that Proof of Ownership is separate from Proof of Control because an identity owner may wish to enable other entities to update the DDO (for example, to assist with key recovery as discussed in section 6.5) without enabling them to prove ownership (and thus be able to impersonate the identity owner). The rules for Proof of Ownership are: A DDO that includes a guardian (section 6.3) MAY have exactly one owner. A DDO that does not include a guardian MUST have exactly one owner. The key for this property MUST be owner. The value of this key MUST be an array where each member of the array is a key description of a valid public key or verification key. A list of standard key descriptions is included in Appendix C. A new key description MAY also be defined by a DID method specification. If this array contains more than one key description, each key description MUST include a property with the key id whose value is a DID reference consisting of the primary DID and a DID fragment. This DID reference uniquely identifies this key description. Example: { "owner": [{ "id": "did:example:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp#key/1", "type": ["CryptographicKey", "EdDsaSAPublicKey"], "curve": "ed25519", "expires": "2017-02-08T16:02:20Z", "publicKeyBase64": "IOmA4R7TfhkY...Mq2/gi25s=" }, { "id": "did:example:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp#key/2", "type": ["CryptographicKey", "RsaPublicKey"], "expires": "2017-03-22T00:00:00Z", "publicKeyBase64": "MIIBOg...mgQaRyV" }] } Note that caching and expiration of the keys in DDO key descriptions is entirely the responsibility of DID resolvers and other clients. See section 9.6. Proof of Control (Optional and Method-Specific) Proof of Control is the mechanism by which an identity owner may give itself or other entities permission to update the DDO—for example to assist with key recovery. Note that Proof of Control is separate from Proof of Ownership as explained in section 6.4. This is particularly important for key recovery in the case of key loss, when the identity owner no longer has access to the keys described using the owner property (section 6.4), or key compromise, where the owner’s trusted third parties need to override malicious activity by an attacker. See section 9. Because the access control logic in a Proof of Control block must be implemented by the target distributed ledger or network, a DID method specification MUST include its own Proof of Control rules and processing logic. It is RECOMMENDED that all DID method specifications support the generic Proof of Control rules specified in this section. A DID method specification MAY add its own method-specific Proof of Control rules. The generic Proof of Control rules are: A DDO MAY have exactly one property representing Proof of Control. The key for this property MUST be control. The value of this key MUST be an array. The values of this array MUST be defined in a DID method specification. If a Proof of Control rule accepts a DID without a fragment as a value, then an update signature verified with any key in the owner of the DDO dereferenced from that DID MUST be considered valid for Proof of Control. If a Proof of Control rule accepts a DID with a fragment as a value, then: The fragment MUST identify a key description in the DDO dereferenced from that DID. An update signature verified with the key in target key description MUST be considered valid for Proof of Control. 6.5.1 "Or" Control To assert that any single member of a group of other DID owners has permission to update the DDO, the control block array MAY contain a single JSON object with two properties: A property type whose value is the string OrControl. A property signers whose value is an array of DIDs with or without fragments. If at least one update signature from a DID in this array is verified, it MUST be considered valid for Proof of Control. 6.5.2 "And" Control To assert that only all members of a group of other DID owners must act together to update the DDO, the control block array MAY contain a single JSON object with two properties: A property type whose value is the string AndControl. A property signers whose value is an array of DIDs with or without fragments. If update signatures from ALL DIDs in this array are verified, it MUST be considered valid for Proof of Control. 6.5.3 "M-of-N" Control To assert that a minimum number of members of a group of other DID owners must act together to update the DDO, the control block array MAY contain a single JSON object with three properties: A property type whose value is the string MofNControl. A property minimumSignatures whose value is an integer representing the minimum threshold of signatures required to act together. A property signers whose value is an array of DIDs with or without fragments. If the number of verified update signatures from DIDs in this array equals or exceeds the value of minimumSignatures, it MUST be considered valid for Proof of Control. Following is an example of a Proof of Control property implementing these rules: { "control": [{ "type": "OrControl", "signer": [ "did:example:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp", "did:example:8uQhQMGzWxR8vw5P3UWH1j" ] }, { "type": "AndControl", "signer": [ "did:example:7P7xfv5AeTSSWcuq6hPptQ", "did:example:X2v8rvzoCxayhYV5mhESQ1" ] }, { "type": "MofNControl", "minimumSignatures": 2, "signer": [ "did:example:4XirzuHiNnTrwfjCMtBEJ6", "did:example:iCGjJEChRbAdfZbGqZAYT7", "did:example:WUoAyXB7mhfcVESjypm5ty" ] }] } Service Endpoint References (Optional) In addition to publication of cryptographic key material, the other primary purpose of DID records is to enable discovery of service endpoints for the identity owner. A service endpoint may represent any type of service the identity owner wishes to advertise, including decentralized identity management services for further discovery, authentication, authorization, or interaction. The rules for service endpoints are: A DDO MAY have exactly one property representing service endpoints. The key for this property MUST be service. The value of this key MUST be a nested JSON object. In this nested JSON object, each property MUST have a key representing the name of a service established in either the generic JSON-LD context (see Appendix B) or a method-specific context definition. The value of this key MUST be a valid URI conforming to RFC 3986 and normalized according to the rules in section 6 of RFC 3986 and to any normalization rules in its applicable URI scheme specification. Example: { "service": { "openid": "https://openid.example.com/456", "xdi": "https://xdi.example.com/123" } } See sections 9.1 and 9.3 for further security considerations regarding authentication service endpoints. Created (Optional) Standard metadata for identity records includes a timestamp of the original creation. The rules for including a creation timestamp are: A DDO MUST have zero or one property representing a creation timestamp. It is RECOMMENDED to include this property. The key for this property MUST be created. The value of this key MUST be a valid XML datetime value as defined in section 3.3.7 of W3C XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 2: Datatypes . This datetime value MUST be normalized to UTC 00:00 as indicated by the trailing "Z". Method specifications that rely on DLTs SHOULD require time values that are after the known "median time past" (defined in Bitcoin BIP 113) , when the DLT supports such a notion. Example: { "created": "2002-10-10T17:00:00Z" } Updated (Optional) Standard metadata for identity records includes a timestamp of the most recent change. The rules for including a updated timestamp are: A DDO MUST have zero or one property representing an updated timestamp. It is RECOMMENDED to include this property. The key for this property MUST be updated. The value of this key MUST follow the formatting rules (3, 4, 5) from section 6.7. Example: { "updated": "2016-10-17T02:41:00Z" } Signature (Optional) A signature on a DDO is cryptographic proof of the integrity of the DDO according to either: The identity owner as defined in section 6.4, or if not present: The guardian as defined in section 6.3. This signature is NOT proof of the binding between a DID and a DDO. See section 9.2. The rules for a signature are: A DDO MAY have exactly one property representing a signature. The key for this property MUST be signature. The value of this key MUST be a valid JSON-LD signature as defined by Linked Data Signatures . Example: { "signature": { "type": "LinkedDataSignature2015", "created": "2016-02-08T16:02:20Z", "creator": "did:example:8uQhQMGzWxR8vw5P3UWH1ja#keys-1", "signatureValue": "QNB13Y7Q9oLlDLL6AHyL31OE5fLji9DwJSA8qnv81oRaKonij8m+Jv4XdiEYvJ97iRlzKU/92/0LafSL5JftEgl960DLcbqMFxOtbAmFOIMa7eDcrgTL5ytXeYCYKLjHQG3s8a3UKDKRuEK54qK1G5hGKGoLgAVa6xgcDLjW7M19PEJV/c3HpGA7Eez6VFMoTt4yESjZvOXC97xN3KpshOx2HT/btgUbo0XjA1Oi0QHdgrLcUsQGt6w23RjeSToalrsA1G69OFeN2OiQrz9Jb4561hvKLSyWObwRmS6n5Vgr5xkvUm6MONRq0Vg33kXevoVM64KTBkISul61tzjn4w==" } }
