Introduction Overview Conventional identity management systems are based on centralized authorities such as corporate directory services, certificate authorities, or domain name registries. From the standpoint of cryptographic trust verification, each of these centralized authorities serves as its own root of trust. To make identity management work across these systems requires implementing federated identity management. The emergence of distributed ledger technology (DLT), sometimes referred to as blockchain technology, provides the opportunity to implement fully decentralized identity management. In this ecosystem, all entities share a common root of trust in the form of a globally distributed ledger (or a decentralized P2P network that provides similar capabilities). The entities are identified by decentralized identifiers (DIDs). They may authenticate via proofs (e.g. digital signatures, privacy-preserving biometrics, etc.). DIDs point to DID Documents. A DID Document contains a set of service endpoints for interacting with the entity. Following the dictums of Privacy by Design, each entity may have as many DIDs as necessary, to respect the entity’s desired separation of identities, personas, and contexts. To use a DID with a particular distributed ledger or network requires defining a DID method in a separate DID method specification. A DID method specifies the set of rules for how a DID is registered, resolved, updated, and revoked on that specific ledger or network. This design eliminates dependence on centralized registries for identifiers as well as centralized certificate authorities for key management—the standard pattern in hierarchical PKI (public key infrastructure). Because DIDs reside on a distributed ledger, each entity may serve as its own root authority—an architecture referred to as DPKI (decentralized PKI). Note that DID methods may also be developed for identities registered in federated or centralized identity management systems. For their part, all types of identity systems may add support for DIDs. This creates an interoperability bridge between the worlds of centralized, federated, and decentralized identity. URIs, URLs, and URNs DIDs have a foundation in URLs, so it's important to understand how the W3C clarified the terms URI (Uniform Resource Identifier), URL (Uniform Resource Locator), and URN (Uniform Resource Name) in September 2001. The key difference between these three categories of identifiers are: URI is the term for any type of identifier used to identify a resource on the Web. URL is the term for any type of URI that can be resolved or de-referenced to locate a representation of a resource on the Web (e.g., Web page, file, image, etc.) URN is the term for a specific type of URI intended to persistently identify a resource, i.e., an identifier that will never change no matter how often the resource moves, changes names, changes owners, etc. URNs are intended to last forever. Motivations for DIDs The growing need for decentralized identity has produced two specific requirements for a new type of URL that still fits Web Architecture and has a few additional requirements that more traditional URLs, like HTTP-based URLs, do not have: The new type of URL SHOULD NOT require a centralized authority to register, resolve, update, or revoke the identifier. The overwhelming majority of URIs today are based on DNS names or IP addresses that depend on centralized authorities for registration and ultimate control. DIDs can be created and managed without any such authority. A URL whose ownership and associated metadata, including public keys, can be cryptographically verified. Authentication via DIDs and DID Documents leverage the same public/private key cryptography as distributed ledgers. The Role of Human-Friendly Identifiers DIDs achieve global uniqueness without the need for a central registration authority. This comes, however, at the cost of human memorability. The algorithms capable of generating globally unique identifiers automatically produce random strings of characters that have no human meaning. This demonstrates the axiom about identifiers known as Zooko’s Triangle : "human-meaningful, decentralized, secure—pick any two". There are of course many use cases where it is desirable to discover a DID when starting from a human-friendly identifier—a natural language name, a domain name, or a conventional address for a DID owner such as a mobile telephone number, email address, Twitter handle, or blog URL. However, the problem of mapping human- friendly identifiers to DIDs (and doing so in a way that can be verified and trusted) is out-of-scope for this specification. Solutions to this problem (and there are many) should be defined in separate specifications that reference this specification. It is strongly recommended that such specifications carefully consider: (a) the numerous security attacks based on deceiving users about the true human-friendly identifier for a target entity, and (b) the privacy consequences of using human-friendly identifiers that are inherently correlatable, especially if they are globally unique. Purpose of This Specification The first purpose of this specification is to define the generic DID scheme and a generic set of operations on DIDs that can be implemented for any distributed ledger or network capable of supporting DIDs. The second purpose of this specification to define the conformance requirements for a DID method specification—a separate specification that defines a specific DID scheme and specific set of DID record operations for a specific distributed ledger or network. Conceptually, the relationship of this specification and a DID method specification is similar to the relationship of the IETF generic URI specification (RFC 3986) and a specific URI scheme (such as the http: and https: schemes specified in RFC 7230). It is also similar to the relationship of the IETF generic URN specification (RFC 2141) and a specific URN namespace definition (such as the UUID URN namespace defined in RFC 4122). The difference is that a DID method specification, in addition to defining a specific DID scheme, must also specify the methods for reading, writing, and revoking DID records on the network for which it is written. For a list of DID Methods and their corresponding specifications, see Appendix . Design Goals This section summarizes the design goals and principles of DID architecture. Goal Description Decentralization DID architecture should eliminate the requirement for centralized authorities or single points of failure in identity management, including the registration of globally unique identifiers, public verification keys, service endpoints, and other metadata. Self-Sovereignty DID architecture should give entities, both human and non- human, the power to directly own and control their own digital identities without the need to rely on external authorities. Privacy DID architecture should enable entities to control the privacy of their digital identities, including minimal, selective, and progressive disclosure of attributes or other identity data. Security DID architecture should enable sufficient security for relying parties to depend on DID records for their required level of assurance. Proof-based DID architecture should enable an entity to provide cryptographic proof of authentication and proof of authorization rights. Discoverability DID architecture should make it possible for entities to discover DIDs for other entities to learn more about or interact with those entities. Interoperability DID architecture should use interoperable standards so DID infrastructure can make use of existing tools and software libraries designed for interoperability. Portability DID architecture should be system and network-independent and enable entitys to use their digital identities with any system that supports DIDs and DID Methods. Simplicity To meet these design goals, DID architecture should be (to paraphrase Albert Einstein) "as simple as possible but no simpler". Extensibility When possible, DID architecture should enable extensibility provided it does not greatly hinder interoperability, portability, or simplicity. Simple Examples This is a simple example of a DID: did:example:123456789abcdefghi Self-Managed DID Document Following is an example of a DID Document that describes the DID above. This example assumes that the entity that controls the private keys for this identifier is authoritative for the DID Document. Discussions at Rebooting the Web of Trust 5 resulted in consensus to remove the authorizationCapability field to DID Method specs as it is unclear whether all ledgers will find the field useful. The field will most likely be moved into a DID Method specification or a separate DID Ledger Capabilities document. The current consensus is to use object capabilities when possible to express authorization to modify a DID Document. { "@context": "https://w3id.org/did/v1", "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi", "authorizationCapability": [{ // this entity may update any field in this DID Document using any // authentication mechanism understood by the ledger "permission": "UpdateDidDocument", "entity": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi" }], "exampleService": "https://example.com/messages/8377464", "authenticationCredential": [{ // this key can be used to authenticate as DID ...9938 "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1", "type": "RsaCryptographicKey", "owner": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi", "publicKeyPem": "-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY...END PUBLIC KEY-----\r\n" }] } Example Delegate-Managed DID Document The following example expresses a DID Document that describes the DID above where control of the document is delegated to another entity. In this case the DID Document describes a dependent—an entity who is not currently in a position to control the authentication information for this identity. This DID Document was created by a delegate—a separate entity with its own DID that serves as a trustee for the dependent. Note that while this DID Document asserts a set of service endpoints, it does not yet contain a set of key descriptions because the dependent does not yet have its own set of private keys. { "@context": "https://w3id.org/did/v1", "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi", "authorizationCapability": [{ // this entity is a delegate and may update any field in this // DID Document using any authentication mechanism understood // by the ledger "permission": "UpdateDidDocument", "entity": "did:example:zxyvwtrkpn987654321" }], "exampleService": "https://example.com/messages/8377464", "authenticationCredential": [{ // this biometric can be used to authenticate as DID ...fghi "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi/biometric/1", "type": "PseudonymousBiometricTemplate2017", "owner": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi", "biometricService": "https://example.com/authenticate" "biometricTemplateShard": "Mjk4MzQyO...5Mzg0MDI5Mwo=" }] } It will probably not be immediately obvious to most developers why delegation is important. We should elaborate that there are use cases around DIDs that are focused on people that do not have the technological means (yet) to control a DID such as the unbanked, refugee use cases, child protection services, and other people that are in delicate situations without ready access to technology.
