Security Considerations NOTE TO IMPLEMENTERS: During the Implementer’s Draft
stage, this section focuses on security topics that should be important in
early implementations. The editors are also seeking feedback on threats and
threat mitigations that should be reflected in this section or elsewhere in
the spec. As the root identity records for decentralized identities, DIDs and
DDOs are a vital component of decentralized identity management. They are also
the foundational building blocks of DPKI (decentralized public key
infrastructure) as an augmentation to conventional X.509 certificates. As
such, DIDs are designed to operate under the general Internet threat model
used by many IETF standards. We assume uncompromised endpoints, but allow
messages to be read or corrupted on the network. Protecting against an attack
when a system is compromised requires external key-signing hardware. See also
section 6.5 regarding key revocation and recovery. For their part, the DLTs
hosting DIDs and DDOs have special security properties for preventing active
attacks. Their design uses public/private key cryptography to allow operation
on passively monitored networks without risking compromise of private keys.
This is what makes DID architecture and decentralized identity possible.
Requirements of DID Method Specifications DID method specifications MUST
include their own Security Considerations sections. This section MUST consider
all the requirements mentioned in section 5 of RFC 3552 (page 27) for the DID
operations defined in the specification. In particular: At least the following
forms of attack MUST be considered: eavesdropping, replay, message insertion,
deletion, modification, and man-in-the-middle. Potential denial of service
attacks MUST be identified as well. If the protocol incorporates cryptographic
protection mechanisms, it should be clearly indicated which portions of the
data are protected and what the protections are (i.e., integrity only,
confidentiality, and/or endpoint authentication, etc.). Some indication should
also be given to what sorts of attacks the cryptographic protection is
susceptible. Data which should be held secret (keying material, random seeds,
etc.) should be clearly labeled. If the technology involves authentication,
particularly user-host authentication, the security of the authentication
method MUST be clearly specified. This section MUST also discuss, per Section
5 of RFC 3552 , residual risks (such as the risks from compromise in a related
protocol, incorrect implementation, or cipher) after threat mitigation has
been deployed. This section MUST provide integrity protection and update
authentication for all operations required by Section 7 of this specification
(DID Operations). Where DID methods make use of peer-to-peer computing
resources (such as with all known DLTs), the expected burdens of those
resources SHOULD be discussed in relation to denial of service. Method-
specific endpoint authentication MUST be discussed. Where DID methods make use
of DLTs with varying network topology, sometimes offered as "light node" or “
thin client ” implementations to reduce required computing resources, the
security assumptions of the topology available to implementations of the DID
method MUST be discussed. DID methods MUST discuss the policy mechanism by
which DIDs are proven to be uniquely assigned. A DID fits the functional
definition of a URN as defined in RFC 2141 —a persistent identifier that is
assigned once to a resource and never reassigned. In a security context this
is particularly important since a DID may be used to identify a specific party
subject to a specific set of authorization rights. DID methods that introduce
new authentication service endpoint types (section 6.6) SHOULD consider the
security requirements of the supported authentication protocol. Binding of
Identity 9.2.1 Proving Ownership of a DID and DDO By itself, a verified
signature on self-signed DDO does not prove ownership of a DID. It only proves
the following: The DDO has not been tampered with since it was registered. The
owner of the DDO controlled the private key used for the signature at the time
the signature was generated. Proving ownership of a DID, i.e., the binding
between the DID and the DDO that describes it, requires a two step process:
Resolving the DID to a DDO according to its DID method specification.
Verifying that the id property of the resulting DDO matches the DID that was
resolved. It should be noted that this process proves ownership of a DID and
DDO regardless of whether the DDO is signed. 9.2.2 Proving Ownership of a
Public Key There are two methods for proving ownership of the private key
corresponding to a public key description in the DDO: static and dynamic. The
static method is to sign the DDO with the private key. This proves ownership
of the private key at a time no later than the DDO was registered. If the DDO
is not signed, ownership of a public key described in the DDO may still be
proven dynamically as follows: Send a challenge message containing a public
key description from the DDO and a nonce to an appropriate service endpoint
described in the DDO. Verify the signature of the response message against the
public key description. 9.2.3 Identity Owner Authentication and Verifiable
Claims A DID and DDO do not inherently carry any PII (personally-identifiable
information). The process of binding a DID to the real-world owner of an
identity using claims about the owner is out of scope for this specification.
However this topic is the focus of the verifiable claims standardization work
at the W3C (where the term "DID" originated). Authentication Service Endpoints
If a DDO publishes a service endpoint intended for authentication or
authorization of an identity owner (section 6.6), it is the responsibility of
the service endpoint provider, identity owner, and/or relying party to comply
with the requirements of the authentication protocol(s) supported at that
service endpoint. Non-Repudiation Non-repudiation of DIDs and DDO updates is
supported under the assumption that: (1) the identity owner is monitoring for
unauthorized updates (see section 9.5) and (2) the identity owner has had
adequate opportunity to revoke malicious updates according to the DID method's
access control mechanism (section 6.5). This capability is further supported
if timestamps are included (sections 6.7 and 6.8) and the target DLT system
supports timestamps. Notification of DDO Changes One mitigation against
unauthorized changes to a DDO is monitoring and actively notifying the
identity owner when there are changes. This is analogous to helping prevent
account takeover on conventional username/password accounts by sending
password reset notifications to the email addresses on file. In the case of a
DID, where there is no intermediary registrar or account provider to generate
the notification, the following approaches are RECOMMENDED: Subscriptions. If
the ledger or network on which the DID is registered directly supports change
notifications, this service can be offered to DID owners. Notifications may be
sent directly to the relevant service endpoints listed in an existing DID.
Self-monitoring. An identity owner may employ its own local or online agent to
periodically monitor for changes to a DDO. Third-party monitoring. An identity
owner may rely on a third party monitoring service, however this introduces
another vector of attack. Key and Signature Expiration In a decentralized
identity architecture, there are no centralized authorities to enforce key or
signature expiration policies. Therefore DID resolvers and other client
applications SHOULD validate that keys have not expired. Since some use cases
may have legitimate reasons why already-expired keys can be extended, a key
expiration SHOULD NOT prevent any further use of the key, and implementations
SHOULD attempt to update its status upon encountering it in a signature. Key
Revocation and Recovery Section 7 specifies the DID operations that must be
supported by a DID method specification, including revocation of a DDO by
replacing it with an updated DDO. In general, checking for key revocation on
DLT-based methods is expected to be handled in a manner similar to checking
the balance of a cryptocurrency account on a distributed ledger: if the
balance is empty, the entire DID is revoked. DID method specifications SHOULD
enable support for a quorum of trusted parties to enable key recovery. Some of
the facilities to do so are suggested in section 6.5, Proof of Control. Note
that not all DID method specifications will recognize control from DIDs
registered using other DID methods and they MAY restrict third-party control
to DIDs that use the same method. Access control and key recovery in a DID
method specification MAY also include a time lock feature to protect against
key compromise by maintaining a second track of control for recovery. Further
specification of this type of control is a matter for future work (see section
11.4).


