Binding of Identity 9.2.1 Proving Ownership of a DID and DID Description By itself, a verified signature on self-signed DID Description does not prove ownership of a DID. It only proves the following: The DID Description has not been tampered with since it was registered. The owner of the DID Description controlled the private key used for the signature at the time the signature was generated. Proving ownership of a DID, i.e., the binding between the DID and the DID Description that describes it, requires a two step process: Resolving the DID to a DID Description according to its DID method specification. Verifying that the id property of the resulting DID Description matches the DID that was resolved. It should be noted that this process proves ownership of a DID and DID Description regardless of whether the DID Description is signed. 9.2.2 Proving Ownership of a Public Key There are two methods for proving ownership of the private key corresponding to a public key description in the DID Description: static and dynamic. The static method is to sign the DID Description with the private key. This proves ownership of the private key at a time no later than the DID Description was registered. If the DID Description is not signed, ownership of a public key described in the DID Description may still be proven dynamically as follows: Send a challenge message containing a public key description from the DID Description and a nonce to an appropriate service endpoint described in the DID Description. Verify the signature of the response message against the public key description. 9.2.3 Identity Owner Authentication and Verifiable Claims A DID and DID Description do not inherently carry any PII (personally-identifiable information). The process of binding a DID to the real-world owner of an identity using claims about the owner is out of scope for this specification. However this topic is the focus of the verifiable claims standardization work at the W3C (where the term "DID" originated).
