---
#Fri 02 Apr 2021 06:04:38 AM UTC
commit:
  COMMIT_HASH: "524f4ffb59f59d43987055f5a55fdc49128338b2"
  COMMIT_AUTHOR: "Manu Sporny <msporny@digitalbazaar.com> 1589650372 -0400"
  COMMIT_COMMITTER: "Manu Sporny <msporny@digitalbazaar.com> 1589650372 -0400"
  COMMIT_PARENT: "1acc3b153b00400a3f119f6d3c99a964689dcdb2"
  COMMIT_TREE: "627e3bf86a7269e0f3cd5311f13ff3a15c4265ca"
  COMMIT_DATA: "2020-05-16T13:32:52-04:00"
  COMMIT_DATE: "2020-05-16"
  COMMIT_TIME: "17:32:52"
  COMMIT_TIMESTAMP: "2020-05-16T17:32:52"
  COMMIT_LINE: ""Minor editorial fixes to Verifiable Timestamps section."
  COMMIT_RUNNABLE: "file:///home/ewelton/Desktop/I/did-biometrics/did-core-dataset/analysis/gitinfo/524f4ffb59f59d43987055f5a55fdc49128338b2/snapshot/index.html"
---

<section id="abstract">
<p class="issue">
This document is undergoing a major structural refactoring and will not be easy
to read. A <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/2019/WD-did-core-20191209/">previously
published version</a> that has a better topical flow may be a better read for
people new to this work. When this document has been updated to have a
better flow, this comment will be removed.
    </p>
<p>
<a>Decentralized identifiers</a> (DIDs) are a new type of identifier that
enables verifiable, decentralized digital identity. A <a>DID</a> identifies any
subject (e.g., a person, organization, thing, data model, abstract entity, etc.)
that the controller of the <a>DID</a> decides that it identifies. These new
identifiers are designed to enable the controller of a <a>DID</a> to prove
control over it and to be implemented independently of any centralized registry,
identity provider, or certificate authority. <a>DID</a>s are URLs that associate
a <a>DID subject</a> with a <a>DID document</a> allowing trustable interactions
associated with that subject. Each <a>DID document</a> can express cryptographic
material, verification methods, or <a>service endpoints</a>, which provide a set
of mechanisms enabling a <a>DID controller</a> to prove control of the
<a>DID</a>. <a>Service endpoints</a> enable trusted interactions associated with
the <a>DID subject</a>. A <a>DID document</a> might contain semantics about the
subject that it identifies. A <a>DID document</a> might contain the <a>DID
subject</a> itself (e.g. a data model).
    </p>
<p>
This document specifies a common data model, a URL format, and a set of
operations for <a>DIDs</a>, <a>DID documents</a>, and <a>DID methods</a>.
    </p>
</section>
