---
#Fri 02 Apr 2021 06:04:47 AM UTC
commit:
  COMMIT_HASH: "008bee088b8cc9f711846f8d7bd5bcdeb3363efe"
  COMMIT_AUTHOR: "Kyle Den Hartog <kdenhartog@users.noreply.github.com> 1586479460 +1200"
  COMMIT_COMMITTER: "GitHub <noreply@github.com> 1586479460 -0400"
  COMMIT_PARENT: "d5aee3ac6a53b7bccb5f1005b7cd3050d39f6451"
  COMMIT_TREE: "bd8384d819dca9bf1b0d9f4fbc0186bf0db5eee5"
  COMMIT_DATA: "2020-04-09T20:44:20-04:00"
  COMMIT_DATE: "2020-04-10"
  COMMIT_TIME: "00:44:20"
  COMMIT_TIMESTAMP: "2020-04-10T00:44:20"
  COMMIT_LINE: ""Address privacy concerns with serviceEndpoints."
  COMMIT_RUNNABLE: "file:///home/ewelton/Desktop/I/did-biometrics/did-core-dataset/analysis/gitinfo/008bee088b8cc9f711846f8d7bd5bcdeb3363efe/snapshot/index.html"
---

<section id="abstract">
<p class="issue">
This document is undergoing a major structural refactoring and will not be easy
to read. A <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/2019/WD-did-core-20191209/">previously
published version</a> that has a better topical flow may be a better read for
people new to this work. When this document has been updated to have a
better flow, this comment will be removed.
    </p>
<p>
<a>Decentralized identifiers</a> (DIDs) are a new type of identifier that
enables verifiable, decentralized digital identity. A <a>DID</a> identifies
any subject (e.g., a person, organization, thing, data model, abstract entity, etc.)
that the controller of the <a>DID</a> decides that it 
identifies. These new identifiers are designed to enable the controller 
of a <a>DID</a> to prove control over it and to be implemented independently 
of any centralized registry, identity provider, or certificate authority. 
<a>DID</a>s are URLs that associate a <a>DID subject</a> with a 
<a>DID document</a> allowing trustable interactions associated with that subject. 
Each <a>DID document</a> can express cryptographic material, verification methods, 
or <a>service endpoints</a>, which provide a set of mechanisms enabling a 
<a>DID controller</a> to prove control of the <a>DID</a>. <a>Service 
endpoints</a> enable trusted interactions associated with the <a>DID 
subject</a>. A <a>DID document</a> might contain semantics about the subject 
that it identifies. A <a>DID document</a> might contain the <a>DID subject</a> 
itself (e.g. a data model).
    </p>
<p>
This document specifies a common data model, a URL format, and a set of
operations for <a>DIDs</a>, <a>DID documents</a>, and <a>DID methods</a>.
    </p>
</section>
