---
#Fri 02 Apr 2021 06:04:49 AM UTC
commit:
  COMMIT_HASH: "d1dccb2ce4e33e367d83d6618880224ad874ac95"
  COMMIT_AUTHOR: "Peter Grassberger <petertheone@gmail.com> 1585829038 +0200"
  COMMIT_COMMITTER: "Markus Sabadello <markus@danubetech.com> 1585932289 +0200"
  COMMIT_PARENT: "b66b3c1d63c669b953c0f0d5f6836a185db68d96"
  COMMIT_TREE: "43f432bd3fa1898d223a608948dbaca584aedccd"
  COMMIT_DATA: "2020-04-03T18:44:49+02:00"
  COMMIT_DATE: "2020-04-03"
  COMMIT_TIME: "16:44:49"
  COMMIT_TIMESTAMP: "2020-04-03T16:44:49"
  COMMIT_LINE: ""Remove self-reference to the public keys section"
  COMMIT_RUNNABLE: "file:///home/ewelton/Desktop/I/did-biometrics/did-core-dataset/analysis/gitinfo/d1dccb2ce4e33e367d83d6618880224ad874ac95/snapshot/index.html"
---

<section id="abstract">
<p class="issue">
This document is undergoing a major structural refactoring and will not be easy
to read. A <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/2019/WD-did-core-20191209/">previously
published version</a> that has a better topical flow may be a better read for
people new to this work. When this document has been updated to have a
better flow, this comment will be removed.
    </p>
<p>
<a>Decentralized identifiers</a> (DIDs) are a new type of identifier that
enables verifiable, decentralized digital identity. A <a>DID</a> identifies
any subject (e.g., a person, organization, thing, data model, abstract entity, etc.)
that the controller of the <a>DID</a> decides that it 
identifies. These new identifiers are designed to enable the controller 
of a <a>DID</a> to prove control over it and to be implemented independently 
of any centralized registry, identity provider, or certificate authority. 
<a>DID</a>s are URLs that associate a <a>DID subject</a> with a 
<a>DID document</a> allowing trustable interactions associated with that subject. 
Each <a>DID document</a> can express cryptographic material, verification methods, 
or <a>service endpoints</a>, which provide a set of mechanisms enabling a 
<a>DID controller</a> to prove control of the <a>DID</a>. <a>Service 
endpoints</a> enable trusted interactions associated with the <a>DID 
subject</a>. A <a>DID document</a> might contain semantics about the subject 
that it identifies. A <a>DID document</a> might contain the <a>DID subject</a> 
itself (e.g. a data model).
    </p>
<p>
This document specifies a common data model, a URL format, and a set of
operations for <a>DIDs</a>, <a>DID documents</a>, and <a>DID methods</a>.
    </p>
</section>
