---
#Fri 02 Apr 2021 06:02:33 AM UTC
commit:
  COMMIT_HASH: "aed9e06afda36dc76305040463d15eaf7a1018df"
  COMMIT_AUTHOR: "Manu Sporny <msporny@digitalbazaar.com> 1612909631 -0500"
  COMMIT_COMMITTER: "Manu Sporny <msporny@digitalbazaar.com> 1613140394 -0500"
  COMMIT_PARENT: "9b122bbb4bc4ff2e34b1975cc6128fbe291e51db"
  COMMIT_TREE: "c399ab04d880f5c693213958d84c4131c82df4d9"
  COMMIT_DATA: "2021-02-12T09:33:14-05:00"
  COMMIT_DATE: "2021-02-12"
  COMMIT_TIME: "14:33:14"
  COMMIT_TIMESTAMP: "2021-02-12T14:33:14"
  COMMIT_LINE: ""Editorial clean up of Abstract section."
  COMMIT_RUNNABLE: "file:///home/ewelton/Desktop/I/did-biometrics/did-core-dataset/analysis/gitinfo/aed9e06afda36dc76305040463d15eaf7a1018df/snapshot/index.html"
---

<section id="abstract">
<p>
<a>Decentralized identifiers</a> (DIDs) are a new type of identifier that
enables verifiable, decentralized digital identity. A <a>DID</a> identifies any
subject (e.g., a person, organization, thing, data model, abstract entity, etc.)
that the controller of the <a>DID</a> decides that it identifies. In contrast to
typical, federated identifiers, <a>DIDs</a> have been designed so that they may
be decoupled from centralized registries, identity providers, and certificate
authorities. Specifically, while other parties might be used to help enable the
discovery of information related to a <a>DID</a>, the design enables the
controller of a <a>DID</a> to prove control over it without requiring permission
from any other party. <a>DIDs</a> are <a>URIs</a> that associate a <a>DID
subject</a> with a <a>DID document</a> allowing trustable interactions
associated with that subject.
    </p>
<p>
Each <a>DID document</a> can express cryptographic material, <a>verification
methods</a>, or <a>services</a>, which provide a set of mechanisms enabling a
<a>DID controller</a> to prove control of the <a>DID</a>. <a>Services</a> enable
trusted interactions associated with the <a>DID subject</a>. A <a>DID</a> might
provide the means to return the <a>DID subject</a> itself, if the <a>DID
subject</a> is an information resource such as a data model.
    </p>
<p>
This document specifies the DID syntax, a common data model, core properties,
serialization representations, DID operations, and an explanation of the process
of resolving DIDs to the resources that they represent.
    </p>
</section>
