---
#Fri 02 Apr 2021 06:03:07 AM UTC
commit:
  COMMIT_HASH: "10744a0c4e098d7241cf20d26ceea15d22716ee4"
  COMMIT_AUTHOR: "Manu Sporny <msporny@digitalbazaar.com> 1609699221 -0500"
  COMMIT_COMMITTER: "Manu Sporny <msporny@digitalbazaar.com> 1609699221 -0500"
  COMMIT_PARENT: "4c42fed6c9eb4ab33a4c9c7a5e82553b9e39d48e"
  COMMIT_TREE: "2e06b9ffb88bbaed893b2f767e25f0d12ded02ea"
  COMMIT_DATA: "2021-01-03T13:40:21-05:00"
  COMMIT_DATE: "2021-01-03"
  COMMIT_TIME: "18:40:21"
  COMMIT_TIMESTAMP: "2021-01-03T18:40:21"
  COMMIT_LINE: ""Specify what CBOR-LD datetimes are counting."
  COMMIT_RUNNABLE: "file:///home/ewelton/Desktop/I/did-biometrics/did-core-dataset/analysis/gitinfo/10744a0c4e098d7241cf20d26ceea15d22716ee4/snapshot/index.html"
---

<section id="abstract">
<p>
<a>Decentralized identifiers</a> (DIDs) are a new type of identifier that
enables verifiable, decentralized digital identity. A <a>DID</a> identifies any
subject (e.g., a person, organization, thing, data model, abstract entity, etc.)
that the controller of the <a>DID</a> decides that it identifies. In contrast to
typical, federated identifiers, DIDs have been designed so that they may be
decoupled from centralized registries, identity providers, and certificate
authorities. Specifically, while other parties might be used to help enable the
discovery of information related to a <a>DID</a>, the design enables the
controller of a <a>DID</a> to prove control over it without requiring permission
from any other party. <a>DIDs</a> are URIs that associate a <a>DID subject</a>
with a <a>DID document</a> allowing trustable interactions associated with that
subject.
    </p>
<p>
Each <a>DID document</a> can express cryptographic material, verification
methods, or <a>service endpoints</a>, which provide a set of mechanisms enabling
a <a>DID controller</a> to prove control of the <a>DID</a>. <a>Service
endpoints</a> enable trusted interactions associated with the <a>DID
subject</a>. A <a>DID document</a> might contain the <a>DID subject</a> itself,
if the <a>DID subject</a> is an information resource such as a data model.
    </p>
<p>
This document specifies a common data model, a URL format, and a set of
operations for <a>DIDs</a>, <a>DID documents</a>, and <a>DID methods</a>.
    </p>
</section>
