---
#Fri 02 Apr 2021 06:03:33 AM UTC
commit:
  COMMIT_HASH: "d54d51ebb299f3cfeeb9b95f0078c90181d48cf8"
  COMMIT_AUTHOR: "Manu Sporny <msporny@digitalbazaar.com> 1604871119 -0500"
  COMMIT_COMMITTER: "Manu Sporny <msporny@digitalbazaar.com> 1605655402 -0500"
  COMMIT_PARENT: "b426d4855ea8dda876ef2b918ef34ed2170e9fba"
  COMMIT_TREE: "f87be8f049c333f8fc8043ffc8f80048ad8567c2"
  COMMIT_DATA: "2020-11-17T18:23:22-05:00"
  COMMIT_DATE: "2020-11-17"
  COMMIT_TIME: "23:23:22"
  COMMIT_TIMESTAMP: "2020-11-17T23:23:22"
  COMMIT_LINE: ""Rework Data Model section."
  COMMIT_RUNNABLE: "file:///home/ewelton/Desktop/I/did-biometrics/did-core-dataset/analysis/gitinfo/d54d51ebb299f3cfeeb9b95f0078c90181d48cf8/snapshot/index.html"
---

Decentralized identifiers (DIDs) are a new type of identifier that enables
verifiable, decentralized digital identity. A DID identifies any subject
(e.g., a person, organization, thing, data model, abstract entity, etc.) that
the controller of the DID decides that it identifies. In contrast to typical,
federated identifiers, DIDs have been designed so that they may be decoupled
from centralized registries, identity providers, and certificate authorities.
Specifically, while other parties might be used to help enable the discovery
of information related to a DID, the design enables the controller of a DID to
prove control over it without requiring permission from any other party. DIDs
are URIs that associate a DID subject with a DID document allowing trustable
interactions associated with that subject.

Each DID document can express cryptographic material, verification methods, or
service endpoints, which provide a set of mechanisms enabling a DID controller
to prove control of the DID. Service endpoints enable trusted interactions
associated with the DID subject. A DID document might contain the DID subject
itself, if the DID subject is an information resource such as a data model.

This document specifies a common data model, a URL format, and a set of
operations for DIDs, DID documents, and DID methods.

This specification is under active development and implementers are advised
against implementing the specification unless they are directly involved with
the W3C DID Working Group. There are use cases [[?DID-USE-CASES]] in active
development that establish requirements for this document.

At present, there exist [40 experimental
implementations](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-method-registry/#the-registry)
and a preliminary [test suite](https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-test-suite/)
that will eventually determine whether or not implementations are conformant.
Readers are advised that Appendix  contains a list of concerns and proposed
changes that will most likely result in alterations to this specification.

Comments regarding this document are welcome. Please file issues directly on
[GitHub](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/), or send them to [public-
did-wg@w3.org](mailto:public-did-wg@w3.org) ( [subscribe](mailto:public-did-
wg-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe),
[archives](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/)).

Portions of the work on this specification have been funded by the United
States Department of Homeland Security's Science and Technology Directorate
under contracts HSHQDC-16-R00012-H-SB2016-1-002 and HSHQDC-17-C-00019. The
content of this specification does not necessarily reflect the position or the
policy of the U.S. Government and no official endorsement should be inferred.

Work on this specification has also been supported by the Rebooting the Web of
Trust community facilitated by Christopher Allen, Shannon Appelcline, Kiara
Robles, Brian Weller, Betty Dhamers, Kaliya Young, Kim Hamilton Duffy, Manu
Sporny, Drummond Reed, Joe Andrieu, and Heather Vescent.

#  Introduction

As individuals and organizations, many of us use globally unique identifiers
in a wide variety of contexts. They serve as communications addresses
(telephone numbers, email addresses, usernames on social media), ID numbers
(for passports, drivers licenses, tax IDs, health insurance), and product
identifiers (serial numbers, barcodes, RFIDs). Resources on the Internet are
identified by globally unique identifiers in the form of MAC addresses; URIs
(Uniform Resource Identifiers) are used for resources on the Web and each web
page you view in a browser has a globally unique URL (Uniform Resource
Locator).

The vast majority of these globally unique identifiers are not under our
control. They are issued by external authorities that decide who or what they
identify and when they can be revoked. They are useful only in certain
contexts and recognized only by certain bodies (not of our choosing). They may
disappear or cease to be valid with the failure of an organization. They may
unnecessarily reveal personal information. And in many cases they can be
fraudulently replicated and asserted by a malicious third-party ("identity
theft").

The Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) defined in this specification are a new
type of globally unique identifier designed to enable individuals and
organizations to generate our own identifiers using systems we trust, and to
prove control of those identifiers (authenticate) using cryptographic proofs
(for example, digital signatures, privacy-preserving biometric protocols, and
so on).

Because we control the generation and assertion of these identifiers, each of
us can have as many DIDs as we need to respect our desired separation of
identities, personas, and contexts (in the everyday sense of these words). We
can scope the use of these identifiers to the most appropriate contexts. We
can interact with other people, institutions or systems that require us to
identify ourselves (or things we control) while maintaining control over how
much personal or private data should be revealed, and without depending on a
central authority to guarantee the continued existence of the identifier.

This specification does not presuppose any particular technology or
cryptography to underpin the generation, persistence, resolution or
interpretation of DIDs. Rather, it defines: a) the generic syntax for all
DIDs, and b) the generic requirements for performing the four basic CRUD
operations (create, read, update, deactivate) on the metadata associated with
a DID (called the DID document).

This enables implementers to design specific types of DIDs to work with the
computing infrastructure they trust (e.g., distributed ledger, decentralized
file system, distributed database, peer-to-peer network). The specification
for a specific type of DID is called a DID method. Implementers of
applications or systems using DIDs can choose to support the DID methods most
appropriate for their particular use cases.

This specification is for:

  * Developers who want to enable users of their system to generate and assert their own identifiers (producers of DIDs); 
  * Developers who want to enable their systems to accept user-controlled identifiers (consumers of DIDs); 
  * Developers who wish to enable the use of DIDs with particular computing infrastructure (DID method developers). 

DID methods can also be developed for identifiers registered in federated or
centralized identity management systems. Indeed, almost all types of
identifier systems can add support for DIDs. This creates an interoperability
bridge between the worlds of centralized, federated, and decentralized
identifiers.

##  A Simple Example

A DID is a simple text string consisting of three parts, the:

  * URI scheme identifier (`did`) 
  * Identifier for the DID method
  * DID method-specific identifier. 

    
    
    did:example:123456789abcdefghi
          

The example DID above resolves to a DID document. A DID document contains
information associated with the DID, such as ways to cryptographically
authenticate the DID controller, as well as services that can be used to
interact with the DID subject.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      "authentication": [{
        // used to authenticate as did:...fghi
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
      }],
      "service": [{
        // used to retrieve Verifiable Credentials associated with the DID
        "id":"did:example:123456789abcdefghi#vcs",
        "type": "VerifiableCredentialService",
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com/vc/"
      }]
    }
          

##  Design Goals

Decentralized Identifiers are a component of larger systems, such as the
Verifiable Credentials ecosystem [[VC-DATA-MODEL]], which drove the design
goals for this specification. These design goals are summarized here.

Goal  |  Description  
---|---  
Decentralization  |  Eliminate the requirement for centralized authorities or
single point failure in identifier management, including the registration of
globally unique identifiers, public verification keys, service endpoints, and
other metadata.  
Control  |  Give entities, both human and non-human, the power to directly
control their digital identifiers without the need to rely on external
authorities.  
Privacy  |  Enable entities to control the privacy of their information,
including minimal, selective, and progressive disclosure of attributes or
other data.  
Security  |  Enable sufficient security for requesting parties to depend on
DID documents for their required level of assurance.  
Proof-based  |  Enable DID controllers to provide cryptographic proof when
interacting with other entities.  
Discoverability  |  Make it possible for entities to discover DIDs for other
entities, to learn more about or interact with those entities.  
Interoperability  |  Use interoperable standards so DID infrastructure can
make use of existing tools and software libraries designed for
interoperability.  
Portability  |  Be system- and network-independent and enable entities to use
their digital identifiers with any system that supports DIDs and DID methods.  
Simplicity  |  Favor a reduced set of simple features to make the technology
easier to understand, implement, and deploy.  
Extensibility  |  Where possible, enable extensibility provided it does not
greatly hinder interoperability, portability, or simplicity.  
  
##  Architecture Overview

This section provides a basic understanding of the major elements of DID
architecture. Formal definitions of terms are provided in .

![

Diagram showing that DIDs are recorded on a Verifiable Data Registry; DIDs

resolve to DID documents; DIDs identify DID subjects; a DID controller can

modify a DID document; a DID method generates a DID; a DID method instructs a

DID resolver.

          ](diagrams/did_architecture_overview.svg) The basic components of DID architecture. 

DIDs and DID URLs

     A DID, or Decentralized Identifier, is a URI composed of three parts: the scheme "did:", a method identifier, and a unique, method-specific identifier generated by the DID method. DIDs are resolvable to DID documents. A DID URL extends the syntax of a basic DID to incorporate other standard URI components (path, query, fragment) in order to locate a particular resource--for example, a public key inside a DID document, or a resource available external to the DID document. 
DID Subjects

     The subject of a DID is, by definition, the entity identified by the DID. The DID subject may also be the DID controller. Anything can be the subject of a DID: person, group, organization, physical thing, logical thing, etc. 
DID Controllers

     The controller of a DID is the entity (person, organization, or autonomous software) that has the capability--as defined by a DID method--to make changes to a DID document. This capability is typically asserted by the control of a set of cryptographic keys used by software acting on behalf of the controller, though it may also be asserted via other mechanisms. Note that a DID may have more than one controller, and the DID subject can be the DID controller, or one of them. 
Verifiable Data Registries

     In order to be resolvable to DID documents, DIDs are typically recorded on an underlying system or network of some kind. Regardless of the specific technology used, any such system that supports recording DIDs and returning data necessary to produce DID documents is called a verifiable data registry. Examples include distributed ledgers, decentralized file systems, databases of any kind, peer-to-peer networks, and other forms of trusted data storage. 
DID documents

     DID documents contain metadata associated with a DID. They typically express verification methods (such as public keys) and services relevant to interactions with the DID subject. A DID document is represents an abstract data model, and can be serialized according to a particular syntax (see ). The generic properties supported in a DID document are specified in . The DID itself is the value of the `id` property. The properties present in a DID document may be updated according to the applicable operations outlined in . 
DID Methods

     DID methods are the mechanism by which a particular type of DID and its associated DID document are created, resolved, updated, and deactivated using a particular verifiable data registry. DID methods are defined using separate DID method specifications (see ). 

Conceptually, the relationship between this specification and a DID method
specification is similar to the relationship between the IETF generic URI
specification ([[RFC3986]]) and a specific URI scheme ([[IANA-URI-SCHEMES]]
(such as the http: and https: schemes specified in [[RFC7230]]). It is also
similar to the relationship between the IETF generic URN specification
([[RFC8141]]) and a specific URN namespace definition (such as the UUID URN
namespace defined in [[RFC4122]]). The difference is that a DID method
specification, as well as defining a specific DID scheme, also specifies the
methods creating, resolving, updating, and deactivating DIDs and DID documents
using a specific type of verifiable data registry.

DID resolvers and DID resolution

     A DID resolver is a software and/or hardware component that takes a DID (and associated input metadata) as input and produces a conforming DID document (and associated metadata) as output. This process is called DID resolution. The inputs and outputs of the DID resolution process are defined in . The specific steps for resolving a specific type of DID are defined by the relevant DID method specification. Additional considerations for implementing a DID resolver are discussed in [[DID-RESOLUTION]]. 
DID URL dereferencers and DID URL dereferencing

     A DID URL dereferencer is a software and/or hardware component that takes a DID URL (and associated input metadata) as input and produces a resource (and associated metadata) as output. This process is called DID URL dereferencing. The inputs and outputs of the DID URL dereferencing process are defined in . Additional considerations for implementing a DID URL dereferencer are discussed in [[DID-RESOLUTION]]. 

This document contains examples that contain JSON, CBOR, and JSON-LD content.
Some of these examples contain characters that are invalid, such as inline
comments (`//`) and the use of ellipsis (`...`) to denote information that
adds little value to the example. Implementers are cautioned to remove this
content if they desire to use the information as valid JSON, CBOR, or JSON-LD.

Interoperability of implementations for DIDs and DID documents will be tested
by evaluating an implementation's ability to create and parse DIDs and DID
documents that conform to the specification. Interoperability for producers
and consumers of DIDs and DID documents is provided by ensuring the DIDs and
DID documents conform. Interoperability for DID method specifications is
provided by the details in each DID method specification. It is understood
that, in the same way that a web browser is not required to implement all
known URI schemes, conformant software that works with DIDs is not required to
implement all known DID methods (however, all implementations of a given DID
method must be interoperable for that method).

A conforming DID is any concrete expression of the rules specified in Section
which complies with relevant normative statements in that section.

A conforming DID document is any concrete expression of the data model
described in this specification which complies with the relevant normative
statements in Sections  and . A serialization format for the conforming
document is deterministic, bi-directional, and lossless as described in
Section .

A conforming DID method is any specification that complies with the relevant
normative statements in Section .

A conforming producer is any algorithm realized as software and/or hardware
and conforms to this specification if it generates conforming DIDs or
conforming DID Documents. A conforming producer MUST NOT produce non-
conforming DIDs or DID documents.

A conforming consumer is any algorithm realized as software and/or hardware
and conforms to this specification if it consumes conforming DIDs or
conforming DID documents. A conforming consumer MUST produce errors when
consuming non-conforming DIDs or DID documents.

##  Terminology

In addition to the terminology above, this specification also uses terminology
from the [[INFRA]] specification to formally define the abstract data model.
When [[INFRA]] terminology is used, such as string, ordered set, and map, it
is linked directly to that specification.

## Identifier

This section describes the formal syntax for DIDs and DID URLs. The term
"generic" is used to differentiate the syntax defined here from syntax defined
by _specific_ DID methods in their respective specifications.

### DID Syntax

The generic DID scheme is a URI scheme conformant with [[!RFC3986]].

The DID scheme name MUST be an ASCII lowercase string.

The DID method name MUST be an ASCII lowercase string.

The following is the ABNF definition using the syntax in [[!RFC5234]], which
defines `ALPHA` and `DIGIT`. All other rule names not defined in this ABNF are
defined in [[RFC3986]].

    
    
    did                = "did:" method-name ":" method-specific-id
    method-name        = 1*method-char
    method-char        = %x61-7A / DIGIT
    method-specific-id = *( *idchar ":" ) 1*idchar
    idchar             = ALPHA / DIGIT / "." / "-" / "_"
          

For requirements on DID methods relating to the DID syntax, see Section .

A DID is expected to be persistent and immutable. That is, a DID is bound
exclusively and permanently to its one and only subject. Even after a DID is
deactivated, it is intended that it never be repurposed.

Ideally, a DID would be a completely abstract decentralized identifier (like a
UUID) that could be bound to multiple underlying verifiable data registries
over time, thus maintaining its persistence independent of any particular
system. However, registering the same identifier on multiple verifiable data
registries makes it extremely difficult to identify the authoritative version
of a DID document if the contents diverge between the different verifiable
data registries. It also greatly increases implementation complexity for
developers.

To avoid these issues, developers should refer to the Decentralized
Characteristics Rubric [[?DID-RUBRIC]] to decide which DID method best
addresses the needs of the use case.

### DID URL Syntax

A DID URL always identifies a resource to be located. It can be used, for
example, to identify a specific part of a DID document.

This following is the ABNF definition using the syntax in [[!RFC5234]]. It
builds on the `did` scheme defined in . The `path-abempty`, `query`, and
`fragment` components are identical to the ABNF rules defined in [[!RFC3986]].

    
    
    did-url = did path-abempty [ "?" query ] [ "#" fragment ]
          

This specification reserves the semicolon (`;`) character for possible future
use as a sub-delimiter for parameters as described in [[?MATRIX-URIS]].

## DID Parameters

The DID URL syntax supports a simple format for parameters based on the
`query` component (See ). Adding a DID parameter to a DID URL means that the
parameter becomes part of the identifier for a resource.

Some DID parameters are completely independent of of any specific DID method,
and function the same way for all DIDs. Other DID parameters are not
necessarily supported by all DID methods. Where optional parameters are
supported, they are expected to operate uniformly across the DID methods that
do support them. Requirements which enable this are detailed in the following
table.

Parameter Name  |  Description  
---|---  
`relative-ref` |  A relative URI reference according to RFC3986 Section 4.2
that identifies a resource at a service endpoint, which is selected from a DID
document by using the `service` parameter. Support for this parameter is
REQUIRED. The associated value MUST be an ASCII string and MUST use percent-
encoding for certain characters as specified in RFC3986 Section 2.1.  
`service` |  Identifies a service from the DID document by service ID. Support
for this parameter is REQUIRED. The associated value MUST be an ASCII string.  
`version-id` |  Identifies a specific version of a DID document to be resolved
(the version ID could be sequential, or a UUID, or method-specific). Support
for this parameter is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an
ASCII string.  
`version-time` |  Identifies a certain version timestamp of a DID document to
be resolved. That is, the DID document that was valid for a DID at a certain
time. Support for this parameter is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value
MUST be an ASCII string which is a valid XML datetime value, as defined in
section 3.3.7 of [W3C XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 2:
Datatypes](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema11-2/) [[XMLSCHEMA11-2]]. This
datetime value MUST be normalized to UTC 00:00, as indicated by the trailing
"Z".  
`hl` |  A resource hash of the DID document to add integrity protection, as
specified in [[?HASHLINK]]. This parameter is non-normative. Support for this
parameter is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ASCII
string.  
  
Implementers as well as DID method specification authors MAY use additional
DID parameters that are not listed here. For maximum interoperability, it is
RECOMMENDED that DID parameters use the official W3C DID Specification
Registries mechanism [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]], to avoid collision with other
uses of the same DID parameter with different semantics.

DID parameters MAY be used if there is a clear use case where the parameter
needs to be part of a URI that can be used as a link, or as a resource in RDF
/ JSON-LD documents.

It is expected that DID parameters will _not_ be used if the same
functionality can be expressed by passing input metadata to a DID resolver.

Additional considerations for processing these parameters are discussed in
[[?DID-RESOLUTION]].

Two example DID URLs using the `service` and `version-time` DID parameters are
shown below.

    
    
    did:foo:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp?service=agent
            
    
    
    did:foo:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp?version-time=2002-10-10T17:00:00Z
            

The DID resolution and the DID URL dereferencing functions can be influenced
by passing input metadata to a DID resolver that are not part of the DID URL.
(See ). This is comparable to HTTP, where certain parameters could either be
included in an HTTP URL, or alternatively passed as HTTP headers during the
dereferencing process. The important distinction is that DID parameters that
are part of the DID URL should be used to specify _whatresource is being
identified_, whereas input metadata that is not part of the DID URL should be
use to control _how thatresource is resolved or dereferenced_.

## Path

A DID path is identical to a generic URI path and MUST conform to the `path-
abempty` ABNF rule in [[!RFC3986]].

A DID method specification MAY specify ABNF rules for DID paths that are more
restrictive than the generic rules in this section.

    
    
    did:example:123456/path
            

## Query

A DID query is derived from a generic URI query and MUST conform to the `did-
query` ABNF rule in Section  . If a DID query is present, it MUST be used as
described in Section .

A DID method specification MAY specify ABNF rules for DID queries that are
more restrictive than the generic rules in this section.

    
    
    did:example:123456?query=true
            

## Fragment

A DID fragment is used as method-independent reference into a DID document or
external resource.

DID fragment syntax and semantics are identical to a generic URI fragment and
MUST conform to RFC 3986, section 3.5.

For information about how to dereference a DID fragment, see .

A DID method specification MAY specify ABNF rules for DID fragments that are
more restrictive than the generic rules in this section.

In order to maximize interoperability, implementers are urged to ensure that
DID fragments are interpreted in the same way across representations (as
described in ). For example, while JSON Pointer [[?RFC6901]] can be used in a
DID fragment, it will not be interpreted in the same way across
representations.

For example:

  * A unique verification method in a DID Document
    
        did:example:123#public-key-0

  * A unique service endpoint in a DID Document
    
        did:example:123#agent

  * A resource external to a DID Document
    
        did:example:123?service=agent&relativeRef;=/credentials#degree

Additional semantics for fragment identifiers, which are compatible with and
layered upon the semantics in this section, are described for JSON-LD
representations in Section .

## Relative DID URLs

A relative DID URL is any URL value in a DID document that does not start with
`did:<method-name>:<method-specific-id>`. More specifically, it is any URL
value that does not start with the ABNF defined in Section . The contents of
the URL typically refers to a resource in the same DID document. Relative DID
URLs MAY contain relative path components, query parameters, and fragment
identifiers.

When resolving a relative DID URL reference, the algorithm specified in
RFC3986 Section 5: Reference Resolution MUST be used. The **base URI** value
is the DID that is associated with the DID subject, see Section . The
**scheme** is `did`. The **authority** is a combination of `<method-
name>:<method-specific-id>`, and the **path** , **query** , and **fragment**
values are those defined in Section , Section , and Section , respectively.

Relative DID URLs are often used to identify verification methods and services
in a DID Document without having to use absolute URLs, which tend to be more
verbose than necessary.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      "verificationMethod": [{
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#key-1",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
      }, ...],
      "authentication": [
        // a relative DID URL used to reference a verification method above
        "#key-1"
      ]
    }
            

In the example above, the relative DID URL value will be transformed to an
absolute DID URL value of `did:example:123456789abcdefghi#key-1`.

# Data Model

This specification defines an abstract data model for DID documents that is
capable of being serialized into multiple concrete representations. This
section provides a high-level description of the data model, how different
types of properties are expressed in the data model, and instructions for
extending the data model.

A DID document consists of a map of properties, where each property consists
of a property name/property value pair. The data model contains at least two
different classes of properties. The first class of properties are called core
properties, and are specified in section . The second class of properties are
called representation properties, and are specified in section .

All property names in the data model are strings. All property values are
expressed using one of the data types in the table below.

Data Type  |  Considerations  
---|---  
ordered map |  A finite ordered sequence of key/value pairs, with no key
appearing twice as specified in [[INFRA]].  
list |  A finite ordered sequence of items as specified in [[INFRA]].  
ordered set |  A list that does not contain the same item twice as specified
in [[INFRA]].  
datetime |  A date and time value that is capable of losslessly expressing all
values expressible by a `dateTime` as specified in [XMLSCHEMA11-2].  
string |  A sequence of code units often used to represent human readable
language as specified in [[INFRA]].  
decimal |  A value that represents a subset of the real numbers, which can be
represented by decimal numerals as specified in [XMLSCHEMA11-2]. To maximize
interoperability, implementers are urged to only express values capable of
being represented by 53 bits in binary notation.  
double |  A value that is often used to approximate arbitrary real numbers as
specified in [XMLSCHEMA11-2]. To maximize interoperability, implementers are
urged to only express values capable of being represented by 64 bits in binary
notation.  
boolean |  A value that is either true or false as defined in [[INFRA]].  
null |  A value that is used to indicate the lack of a value as defined in
[[INFRA]].  
  
## Extensibility

The data model supports two types of extensibility.

  1. For maximum interoperability, it is RECOMMENDED that extensions use the official W3C DID Specification Registries mechanism [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. The use of this mechanism for new properties or other extensions is the only specified method that ensures that two different representations will be able to work together. 
  2. Representations MAY define other extensibility mechanisms including methods for decentralized extensions. Such extension mechanisms MUST support lossless conversion into any other conformant representation. 

It is always possible for two specific implementations to agree out-of-band to
use a mutually understood extension or representation that is not recorded in
the DID Core Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]; interoperability between
such implementations and the larger ecosystem will be less reliable.

# Core Properties

A DID points to a DID document. DID documents are the serialization of the
data model outlined in Section . The following sections define the properties
in a DID document, including whether these properties are required or
optional. These properties describe relationships between the DID subject and
the value of the property.

For reference, the core properties found at the top level of a DID document
are as follows. Properties belonging to other objects referenced in the DID
document are also listed, with their respective top-level property.

  * `id`: defined in 
  * `alsoKnownAs`: defined in 
  * `controller`: defined in 
  * `verificationMethod`: defined in . Sub-properties include `id`, `type`, `controller`. 
  * `authentication`: defined in . 
  * `assertionMethod`: defined in . 
  * `keyAgreement`: defined in . 
  * `capabilityDelegation`: defined in . 
  * `capabilityInvocation`: defined in . 
  * `service`: defined in . Sub-properties include `id`, `type` and `serviceEndpoint`. 

As a result of the data model being defined using terminology from [[INFRA]],
property values which can contain more than one item, such as lists and sets,
are explicitly ordered. For the purposes of this specification, unless
otherwise stated, ordering is not important and implementations are not
expected to produce or consume deterministically ordered values.

## DID Subject

The DID subject is denoted with the `id` property at the top level of a DID
document. The DID subject is the entity that the DID document is about. That
is, it is the entity identified by the DID and described by the DID document.

DID documents MUST include the `id` property at the top level.

id

     The value of `id` MUST be a string that conforms to the rules in Section . 
    
    
    {
      "id": "did:example:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp"
    }
          

DID method specifications can create intermediate representations of a DID
document that do not contain the `id` property, such as when a DID resolver is
performing DID resolution. However, the fully resolved DID document always
contains a valid `id` property. The value of `id` in the resolved DID document
MUST match the DID that was resolved, or be populated with the equivalent
canonical DID specified by the DID method, which SHOULD be used by the
resolving party going forward.

A DID document can contain objects which have their own unique identifier;
see, for example, . Such other objects also use the `id` property to denote
the identifier of the object in question. The `id` property only denotes the
DID of the DID subject when it is present at the _top level_ of a DID
document.

### alsoKnownAs

A DID subject can have multiple identifiers for different purposes, or at
different times. The assertion that two or more DIDs (or other types of URI)
identify the same DID subject can be made using the `alsoKnownAs` property.

DID documents MAY include the `alsoKnownAs` property.

alsoKnownAs

     The value of `alsoKnownAs` MUST be a list where each item in the list is a URI conforming to [[RFC3986]]. 
     This relationship is a statement that the subject of this identifier is also identified by one or more other identifiers. 

Applications might choose to consider two identifiers related by `alsoKnownAs`
to be equivalent _if_ the `alsoKnownAs` relationship is reciprocated in the
reverse direction. It is best practice _not_ to consider them equivalent in
the absence of this inverse relationship. In other words, the presence of an
`alsoKnownAs` assertion does not prove that this assertion is true. Therefore
it is strongly advised that a requesting party obtain independent verification
of an `alsoKnownAs` assertion.

Given that the DID subject might use different identifiers for different
purposes, an expectation of strong equivalence between the two identifiers, or
merging the graphs of the two corresponding DID documents, is not necessarily
appropriate, _even with_ a reciprocal relationship.

##  Control

Authorization is the mechanism used to state how operations are performed on
behalf of the DID subject. A DID controller is authorized to make changes to
the respective DID document.

A DID document MAY include a `controller` property to indicate the DID
controller(s). If so:

controller

     The value of the `controller` property MUST be a string or an ordered set of strings that conform to the rules in Section . The corresponding DID document(s) SHOULD contain verification relationships that explicitly permit the use of certain verification methods for specific purposes. 

When a `controller` property is present in a DID Document, its value expresses
one or more DIDs. Any verification methods contained in the DID Documents for
those DIDs SHOULD be accepted as authoritative, such that proofs that satisfy
those verification methods are to be considered equivalent to proofs provided
by the DID Subject.

Note that Authorization is separate from . This is particularly important for
key recovery in the case of key loss, when the subject no longer has access to
their keys, or key compromise, where the DID controller's trusted third
parties need to override malicious activity by an attacker. See Section .

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      "controller": "did:example:bcehfew7h32f32h7af3",
      "service": [{
        // used to retrieve Verifiable Credentials
        associated with the DID
        "type": "VerifiableCredentialService",
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com/vc/"
      }]
    }
          

## Verification Methods

A DID document can express verification methods, such as cryptographic keys,
which can be used to authenticate or authorize interactions with the DID
subject or associated parties. The information expressed often includes
globally unambiguous identifiers and public key material, which can be used to
verify digital signatures. For example, a public key can be used as a
verification method with respect to a digital signature; in such usage, it
verifies that the signer possessed the associated private key.

Verification methods might take many parameters. An example of this is a set
of five cryptographic keys from which any three are required to contribute to
a threshold signature. Methods need not be cryptographic. An example of this
might be the contact information for a biometric service provider that
compares a purported DID controller against a candidate biometric vector.

In order to maximize interoperability, support for public keys as verification
methods is restricted: see . For other types of verification method, the
verification method SHOULD be registered in the [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

A DID document MAY include a `verificationMethod` property.

verificationMethod

    

If a DID document includes a `verificationMethod` property, the value of the
property MUST be an ordered set of verification methods, where each
verification method is described by a map containing properties. The
properties MUST include the `id`, `type`, `controller`, and specific
verification method properties, and MAY include additional properties.

The value of the `id` property for a verification method MUST be a URI. When
more than one verification method is present, the value of
`verificationMethod` MUST NOT contain multiple entries with the same `id`. If
the value of `verificationMethod` contains multiple entries with the same
`id`, a DID document processor MUST produce an error.

In the case where a verification method is a public key, the value of the `id`
property MAY be structured as a [compound
key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compound_key). This is especially useful
for integrating with existing key management systems and key formats such as
JWK [[RFC7517]]. It is RECOMMENDED that JWK `kid` values are set to the public
key fingerprint [[RFC7638]]. It is RECOMMENDED that verification methods that
use JWKs to represent their public keys utilize the value of `kid` as their
fragment identifier. See the first key in  for an example of a public key with
a compound key identifier.

The value of the `type` property MUST be exactly one verification method type.
In order to maximize global interoperability, the verification method type
SHOULD be registered in the [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

The value of the `controller` property MUST be a string that conforms to the
rules in Section .

The semantics of the `controller` property are the same when the subject of
the relationship is the DID document as when the subject of the relationship
is a verification method, such as a public key. Since a key (for example)
can't control itself, and the key controller cannot be inferred from the DID
document, it is necessary to explicitly express the identity of the controller
of the key. The difference is that the value of `controller` for a
verification method is _not_ necessarily a DID controller. DID controller(s)
are expressed using the `controller` property on the _top level_ of the DID
document; see Section .

    
    
    {
      "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1", "https://w3id.org/security/v1"],
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "verificationMethod": [{
        "id": ...,
        "type": ...,
        "controller": ...,
        ...
      ]}
    }
          

As well as the `verificationMethod` property, verification methods can be
embedded in or referenced from properties associated with various verification
relationships (see ). Referencing verification methods allows them to be used
with more than one verification relationship.

The steps to use when processing a verification method in a DID document are:

  1. Let _value_ be the data associated with the `verificationMethod` property or property for a particular verification relationship and initialize _result_ to `null`. 
  2. If _value_ is an object, the verification method material is embedded. Set _result_ to _value_. 
  3. If _value_ is a string, the verification method is included by reference. Assume _value_ is a URL. 
    1. Dereference the URL and retrieve the `verificationMethod` properties associated with the URL. For example, process the `verificationMethod` property at the top-level of the dereferenced document. 
    2. Iterating through each object, if the `id` property of the object matches _value_ , set _result_ to the object. 
  4. If _result_ does not contain at least the `id`, `type`, and `controller` properties, as well as any mandatory public cryptographic material, as determined by the `type` property of _result_ , throw an error. 

    
    
    {
    ...
    
      "authentication": [
        // this key is referenced, it may be used with more than one verification relationship
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this key is embedded and may *only* be used for authentication
        {
          "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
          "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
          "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
          "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
        }
      ],
    
    ...
    }
          

### Key types and formats

A public key can be used as a verification method.

A verification method MUST NOT contain multiple verification material
properties. For example, expressing key material in a verification method
using both `publicKeyJwk` and `publicKeyBase58` at the same time is
prohibited.

This specification strives to limit the number of formats for expressing
public key material in a DID document to the fewest possible, to increase the
likelihood of interoperability. The fewer formats that implementers have to
implement, the more likely it will be that they will support all of them. This
approach attempts to strike a delicate balance between ease of implementation
and supporting formats that have historically had broad deployment. The
specific types of key formats that are supported in this specification are
listed here.

When using any of the public key types described here, public key expression
MUST NOT use any other key format than those listed in the Public Key Support
table. For public key types that are not listed here, the type value and
corresponding format property SHOULD be registered in [[?DID-SPEC-
REGISTRIES]], as with any other verification method.

The Working Group is still debating whether the base encoding format used will
be Base58 (Bitcoin) [[?BASE58]], base64url [[RFC7515]], or base16 (hex)
[[RFC4648]]. The entries in the table below currently assume PEM and Base58
(Bitcoin), but might change to base64url and/or base16 (hex) after the group
achieves consensus on this particular issue.

The Working Group is still debating whether secp256k1 Schnorr public key
values will be elaborated upon in this specification and if so, how they will
be expressed and encoded.

The Working Group is still debating how best to communicate support for
specific verification method types.

This table defines the support for public key expression in a DID document.
For each public key type, a maximum of two encoding formats is supported.  Key
Type  
(`type` value)  |  Support  
---|---  
RSA  
(`RsaVerificationKey2018`)  |  RSA public key values MUST be encoded as a JWK
[[RFC7517]] using the `publicKeyJwk` property.  
ed25519  
(`Ed25519VerificationKey2018`)  |  Ed25519 public key values MUST either be
encoded as a JWK [[RFC7517]] using the `publicKeyJwk` or be encoded as the raw
32-byte public key value in Base58 Bitcoin format [[?BASE58]] using the
`publicKeyBase58` property.  
secp256k1  |  Secp256k1 public key values MUST either be encoded as a JWK
[[RFC7517]] using the `publicKeyJwk` or be encoded as the raw 33-byte public
key value in Base58 Bitcoin format [[?BASE58]] using the `publicKeyBase58`
property.  
Curve25519  
(`X25519KeyAgreementKey2019`)  |  Curve25519 (also known as X25519) public key
values MUST either be encoded as a JWK [[RFC7517]] using the `publicKeyJwk` or
be encoded as the raw 32-byte public key value in Base58 Bitcoin format
[[?BASE58]] using the `publicKeyBase58` property.  
JWK  
(`JsonWebKey2020`)  |  Key types listed in
[JOSE](https://www.iana.org/assignments/jose/jose.xhtml), represented using
[[RFC7517]] using the `publicKeyJwk` property.  
  
Example:

    
    
    {
      "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1", "https://w3id.org/security/v1"],
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "verificationMethod": [{
        "id": "did:example:123#_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A",
        "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
        "controller": "did:example:123",
        "publicKeyJwk": {
          "crv": "Ed25519",
          "x": "VCpo2LMLhn6iWku8MKvSLg2ZAoC-nlOyPVQaO3FxVeQ",
          "kty": "OKP",
          "kid": "_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A"
        }
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
        "controller": "did:example:pqrstuvwxyz0987654321",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
      }],
      ...
    }
            

If a public key does not exist in the DID document, the key was revoked or is
invalid. The DID document MUST NOT express revoked keys using a verification
relationship. Each DID method specification is expected to detail how
revocation is performed and tracked.

Caching and expiration of the keys in a DID document is entirely the
responsibility of DID resolvers and requesting parties. For more information,
see Section .

## Verification Relationships

A verification relationship expresses the relationship between the DID subject
and a verification method.

Different verification relationships enable the associated verification
methods to be used for different purposes. It is up to a _verifier_ to
ascertain the validity of a verification attempt by checking that the
verification method used is contained in the appropriate verification
relationship property of the DID Document.

The verification relationship between the DID subject and the verification
method MUST be explicit in the DID document. Verification methods that are not
associated with a particular verification relationship MUST NOT be used for
that verification relationship. For example, a verification method in the
value of the `authentication` property cannot be used to engage in key
agreement protocols with the DID subject--the value of the `keyAgreement`
property needs to be used for that.

This specification defines several verification relationships below. A DID
document MAY include any of these, or other properties, to express a specific
verification relationship. In order to maximize global interoperability, any
such properties used SHOULD be registered in [[DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

## Authentication

The `authentication` verification relationship is used to specify how the DID
subject is expected to be authenticated, such as for the purposes of logging
into a website.

authentication

     The `authentication` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 

If authentication is established, it is up to the DID method or other
application to decide what to do with that information. A particular DID
method could decide that authenticating as a DID controller is sufficient to,
for example, update or delete the DID document. Another DID method could
require different keys, or a different verification method entirely, to be
presented in order to update or delete the DID document than that used to
authenticate. In other words, what is done _after_ the authentication check is
out of scope for the DID data model, but DID methods and applications are
expected to define this themselves.

This is useful to any _authentication verifier_ that needs to check to see if
an entity that is attempting to authenticate is, in fact, presenting a valid
proof of authentication. When a _verifier_ receives some data (in some
protocol-specific format) that contains a proof that was made for the purpose
of "authentication", and that says that an entity is identified by the DID,
then that _verifier_ checks to ensure that the proof can be verified using a
verification method (e.g., public key) listed under `authentication` in the
DID Document.

Note that the verification method indicated by the `authentication` property
of a DID document can only be used to authenticate the DID subject. To
authenticate a different DID controller, the entity associated with the value
of `controller` (see Section ) needs to authenticate with its _own_ DID
document and attached `authentication` verification relationship.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "authentication": [
        // this method can be used to authenticate as did:...fghi
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this method can be used to authenticate as did:...fghi
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#biometric-1",
        // this method is *only* authorized for authentication, it may not
        // be used for any other proof purpose, so its full description is
        // embedded here rather than using only a reference
        {
          "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
          "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
          "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
          "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
        }
      ],
      ...
    }
            

## Assertion

The `assertionMethod` verification relationship is used to specify how the DID
subject is expected to express claims, such as for the purposes of issuing a
Verifiable Credential [[?VC-DATA-MODEL]].

assertionMethod

     The `assertionMethod` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 

An example of when this property is useful is during the processing of a
verifiable credential by a verifier. During validation, a verifier checks to
see if a verifiable credential has been signed by the DID Subject by checking
that the verification method used to assert the proof is associated with the
`assertionMethod` property in the corresponding DID Document.

    
    
    {
    "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
    "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
    ...
    "assertionMethod": [
      // this method can be used to assert statements as did:...fghi
      "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
      // this method is *only* authorized for assertion of statements, it may not
      // be used for any other verification relationship, so its full description is
      // embedded here rather than using only a reference
      {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
      }
    ],
    ...
    }
            

## Key Agreement

The `keyAgreement` verification relationship is used to specify how to encrypt
information to the DID subject, such as for the purposes of establishing a
secure communication channel with the recipient.

keyAgreement

     The `keyAgreement` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 

An example of when this property is useful is when encrypting a message
intended for the DID Subject. In this case, the counterparty uses the public
cryptographic key information in the verification method to wrap a decryption
key for the recipient.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "keyAgreement": [
        // this method can be used to perform key agreement as did:...fghi
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this method is *only* authorized for key agreement usage, it may not
        // be used for any other verification relationship, so its full description is
        // embedded here rather than using only a reference
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#zC9ByQ8aJs8vrNXyDhPHHNNMSHPcaSgNpjjsBYpMMjsTdS",
          "type": "X25519KeyAgreementKey2019",
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyBase58": "9hFgmPVfmBZwRvFEyniQDBkz9LmV7gDEqytWyGZLmDXE"
        }
      ],
      ...
    }
            

## Capability Invocation

The `capabilityInvocation` verification relationship is used to specify a
mechanism that might be used by the DID subject to invoke a cryptographic
capability, such as the authorization to access an HTTP API.

capabilityInvocation

     The `capabilityInvocation` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 

An example of when this property is useful is when a DID subject chooses to
invoke their capability to start a vehicle through the combined usage of a
verification method and the `StartCar` capability. In this example, the
vehicle would be the _verifier_ and would need to verify that the verification
method exists in the `capabilityInvocation` property.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1", "id":
      "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "capabilityInvocation: [
        // this method can be used to invoke capabilities as did:...fghi
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this method is *only* authorized for capability invocation usage, it may not
        // be used for any other verification relationship, so its full description is
        // embedded here rather than using only a reference
        {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
        }
      ],
      ...
    }
            

## Capability Delegation

The `capabilityDelegation` verification relationship is used to specify a
mechanism that might be used by the DID subject to delegate a cryptographic
capability to another party, such as delegating the authority to access a
specific HTTP API to a subordinate.

capabilityDelegation

     The `capabilityDelegation` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 

An example of when this property is useful is when a DID Subject chooses to
grant their capability to start a vehicle through the combined usage of a
verification method and the `StartCar` capability to a party other than
themselves.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1", "id":
      "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "capabilityDelegation": [
        // this method can be used to perform capability delegation as did:...fghi
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this method is *only* authorized for granting capabilities it may not
        // be used for any other verification relationship, so its full description is
        // embedded here rather than using only a reference
        {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
        }
      ],
      ...
    }
            

## Service Endpoints

Service endpoints are used in DID documents to express ways of communicating
with the DID subject or associated entities. Services listed in the DID
document can contain information about privacy preserving messaging services,
or more public information, such as social media accounts, personal websites,
and email addresses although this is discouraged. See  for additional details.
The metadata associated with services are often service-specific. For example,
the metadata associated with an encrypted messaging service can express how to
initiate the encrypted link before messaging begins.

Pointers to services are expressed using the `service` property. Each service
has its own `id` and `type` properties, as well as a `serviceEndpoint`
property with a URI or a set of other properties describing the service.

One of the primary purposes of a DID document is to enable discovery of
service endpoints. A service endpoint can be any type of service the DID
subject wants to advertise, including decentralized identity management
services for further discovery, authentication, authorization, or interaction.

A DID document MAY include a `service` property.

service

    

If a DID document includes a `service` property, the value of the property
SHOULD be an ordered set of service endpoints, where each service endpoint is
described by a set of properties. Each service endpoint MUST have `id`,
`type`, and `serviceEndpoint` properties, and MAY include additional
properties.

The value of the `id` property MUST be a URI. The value of `service` MUST NOT
contain multiple entries with the same `id`. In this case, a DID document
processor MUST produce an error.

The value of the `serviceEndpoint` property MUST be a valid URI conforming to
[[RFC3986]] and normalized according to the rules in section 6 of [[RFC3986]]
and to any normalization rules in its applicable URI scheme specification,
_OR_ a set of properties which describe the service endpoint further.

It is expected that the service endpoint protocol is published in an open
standard specification.

    
    
    {
      "service": [{
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#openid",
        "type": "OpenIdConnectVersion1.0Service",
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://openid.example.com/"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#vcr",
        "type": "CredentialRepositoryService",
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://repository.example.com/service/8377464"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#xdi",
        "type": "XdiService",
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://xdi.example.com/8377464"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#agent",
        "type": "AgentService",
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://agent.example.com/8377464"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#hub",
        "type": "IdentityHub",
        "verificationMethod": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#key-1",
        "serviceEndpoint": {
          "@context": "https://schema.identity.foundation/hub",
          "type": "UserHubEndpoint",
          "instances": ["did:example:456", "did:example:789"]
        }
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#messages",
        "type": "MessagingService",
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com/messages/8377464"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#inbox",
        "type": "SocialWebInboxService",
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://social.example.com/83hfh37dj",
        "description": "My public social inbox",
        "spamCost": {
          "amount": "0.50",
          "currency": "USD"
        }
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#authpush",
        "type": "DidAuthPushModeVersion1",
        "serviceEndpoint": "http://auth.example.com/did:example:123456789abcdefg"
      }]
    }
          

For more information about security considerations regarding authentication
service endpoints see Sections  and .

# Representations

All concrete representations of a DID document are serialized using a
deterministic mapping that is able to be unambiguously parsed into the data
model defined in this specification. All serialization methods MUST define
rules for the bidirectional translation of a DID document both into and out of
the representation in question. An implementation MUST NOT convert between
representations without first parsing to a DID document model (described in
Sections  and ); translation between any two representations is done by
parsing the source format into a DID document model and then serializing the
DID document model into the target representation.

Although syntactic mappings are provided for JSON, JSON-LD, and CBOR here,
applications and services MAY use any other data representation syntax that is
capable of expressing the data model, such as XML or YAML.

Producers MUST indicate which representation of a document has been used via a
media type in the document's metadata. Consumers MUST determine the
representation of a DID document via the `content-type` DID resolver metadata
field (see ), _not_ through the content of the DID document alone.

The production and consumption rules in this section apply to all
implementations seeking to be fully compatible with independent
implementations of the specification. Deployments of this specification MAY
use a custom agreed-upon representation, including localized rules for
handling properties not listed in the registry. See section  for more
information.

## Creating Representations

The data model provided in this specification supports being serialized into a
variety of existing representations. Some applications might require the
creation of a new representation. All new representations require the
following:

  1. A representation MUST define an unambiguous encoding and decoding of all property names and their associated values as defined in this specification. This means anything you can represent in the DID document data model can be represented in any compliant representation. 
  2. The representation MUST be associated with an IANA-registered MIME type. 
  3. The representation MUST define fragment processing rules for its MIME type that are conformant with the fragment processing rules defined in section  of this specification. 

In order to maximize interoperability, representation specification authors
SHOULD register their representation in the [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

##  JSON

This section sets out the requirements for producing and consuming DID
documents that are in plain JSON (as indicated by a `content-type` of
`application/did+json` in the resolver metadata).

### Production

A DID document MUST be a single JSON object conforming to [[!RFC8259]]. All
top-level properties of the DID document MUST be represented by using the
property name as the name of the member of the JSON object. The values of
properties of the data model described in Section , including all extensions,
are encoded in JSON [[RFC8259]] by mapping property values to JSON types as
follows:

  * Numeric values representable as IEEE754 MUST be represented as a Number type. 
  * Boolean values MUST be represented as a Boolean literal. 
  * Sequence value MUST be represented as an Array type. 
  * Unordered sets of values MUST be represented as an Array type. 
  * Sets of properties MUST be represented as an Object type. 
  * Empty values MUST be represented as a null literal. 
  * Other values MUST be represented as a String type. 

Implementers producing JSON are advised to ensure that their algorithms are
aligned with the JSON serialization rules in the [[INFRA]] specification.

All properties of the DID document MUST be included in the root object.
Properties MAY define additional data sub structures subject to the value
representation rules in the list above.

The member name `@context` MUST NOT be used as this property is reserved for
JSON-LD producers.

###  Consumption

The top-level element MUST be a JSON object. Any other data type at the top
level is an error and MUST be rejected. The top-level JSON object represents
the DID document, and all members of this object are properties of the DID
document. The object member name is the property name, and the member value is
interpreted as follows:

  * Number types MUST interpreted as numeric values representable as IEEE754. 
  * Boolean literals MUST be interpreted as a Boolean value. 
  * An Array type MUST be interpreted as a Sequence or Unordered set, depending on the definition of the property for this value. 
  * An Object type MUST be interpreted as a sets of properties. 
  * A null literal MUST be interpreted as an Empty value. 
  * String types MUST be interpreted as Strings, which may be further parsed depending on the definition of the property for this value into more specific data types such as URIs, date stamps, or other values. 

Implementers consuming JSON are advised to ensure that their algorithms are
aligned with the JSON consumption rules in the [[INFRA]] specification.

The value of the `@context` object member MUST be ignored as this is reserved
for JSON-LD consumers.

Unknown object member names MUST be ignored as unknown properties.

This specification needs to define clear and consistent rules for how to
handle unknown data members on consumption, and this section needs to be
updated with that decision.

##  JSON-LD

[[!JSON-LD11]] is a JSON-based format used to serialize [Linked
Data](http://www.w3.org/TR/ld-glossary/#linked-data).

This section sets out the requirements for producing and consuming DID
documents that are in JSON-LD (as indicated by a `content-type` of
`application/did+ld+json` in the resolver metadata).

  * The `@id` and `@type` keywords are aliased to `id` and `type` respectively, enabling developers to use this specification as idiomatic JSON. 
  * Even though JSON-LD allows any IRI as node identifiers, DID documents are explicitly restricted to only describe DIDs. This means that the value of `id` that refers to the DID subject MUST be a valid DID and not any other kind of IRI. 
  * Data types, such as integers, dates, units of measure, and URLs, are automatically typed to provide stronger type guarantees for use cases that require them. 

###  Production

The DID document MUST be serialized as a JSON document, with one additional
requirement: The DID document MUST include the `@context` property.

@context

    

The [JSON-LD specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#the-context)
defines values that are valid for this property.

The value of `@context` MUST be exactly one of these values.

  * The [INFRA string](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#strings) `https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1`. 
    
        {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      ...
    }
                    

  * An [INFRA list](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#lists), with first item the [INFRA string](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#strings) `https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1`, and subsequent items of type [INFRA string](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#strings) or [INFRA map](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#maps). 
    
        {
      "@context": [
        "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
        "https://example.com/blockchain-identity/v1"
      ],
      ...
    }
                    

The working group is still discussing restrictions on `@base`, beyond what
JSON-LD allows.

All members of the `@context` property SHOULD exist in the DID specification
registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]] in order to achieve interoperability
across different representations. If a member does not exist in the DID
specification registries, then the DID document might not be interoperable
across representations.

It is RECOMMENDED that dereferencing each URI value of the `@context` property
results in a document containing machine-readable information about the
context. These URIs SHOULD be associated with a cryptographic hash of the
content of the JSON-LD Context as part of registration in the DID
Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

Producers SHOULD NOT produce DID documents that contain properties not defined
via the `@context`. Properties that are not defined via the `@context` MAY be
dropped by Consumers.

###  Consumption

The top-level element MUST be a JSON object. Any other data type at the top
level is an error and MUST be rejected. This top-level JSON object is
interpreted using JSON-LD processing under the rules of the defined `@context`
fields.

@context

    

The value of the `@context` property conforms to the JSON-LD Production Rules.
If more than one URI is provided, the URIs MUST be interpreted as an ordered
set.

Unknown object member names MUST be ignored as unknown properties.

This specification needs to define clear and consistent rules for how to
handle unknown data members on consumption, and this section needs to be
updated with that decision.

Consumers SHOULD drop all properties from a DID document that are not defined
via the `@context`.

## CBOR

Like Javascript Object Notation (JSON) [[RFC8259]], Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) [[RFC7049]] defines a set of formatting rules for the
portable representation of structured data. CBOR is a more concise, machine-
readable, language-independent data interchange format that is self-describing
and has built-in semantics for interoperability. With specific constraints,
CBOR can support all JSON data types (including JSON-LD) for translation
between the DID document model (described in Data Model and DID Documents) and
other core representations.

Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL) [[RFC8610]] is a notation used to
express Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR), and by extension JSON
Data Structures. The following notation expresses the DID Document model in
CBOR representation with specific constraints for deterministic mappings
between other core representations.

    
    
    DID-document = {
      ? @context : uri
      id : did
      ? publicKey : [* publicKey ]
      ? authentication :  [ *did // *publicKey // *tstr ]
      ? service : [ + service  ]
      ? controller : did / [ *did ]
      ? created : time
      ? updated : time
      proof :  any
    }
    
    publicKey = {
      id : did
      type : text
      controller : uri
    }
    
    did = tstr .pcre "^did\\:(?<method-name>[a-z0-9]{2,})\\:(?<method-specific-id>[A-Za-z0-9\\.\\-\\:\\_]+)"
    
    did-url =  tstr .pcre "^did\\:(?<method-name>[a-z0-9]{2,})\\:(?<method-specific-id>[A-Za-z0-9\\.\\-\\:\\_]+)\\;(?<path>[A-Za-z0-9\\/)(?<query>\\?[a-z0-9\\=\\&])#(?<fragment>.+)"
    
    service = {
      id : did-url
      type : text
      serviceEndpoint : uri
      ? description : text
      * tstr => any
    }
          

### Production

When producing DID Documents that are represented as CBOR, in addition to the
suggestions in section 3.9 of the CBOR [[RFC7049]] specification for
deterministic mappings, the following constraints of the DID Document model
MUST be followed:

  * Map keys MUST be strings. 
  * Integer encoding MUST be as short as possible. 
  * The expression of lengths in CBOR major types 2 through 5 MUST be as short as possible. 
  * All floating point values MUST be encoded as 64-bits, even for integral values. 

    
    
        a7                                                # map(7)
        62                                                #   text(2)
           6964                                           #     "id"
        78 40                                             #   text(64)
           6469643a6578616d706c653a31324433               #     "did:example:12D3"
           4b6f6f574d4864727a6377706a626472               #     "KooWMHdrzcwpjbdr"
           5a733547477145524176636771583362               #     "Zs5GGqERAvcgqX3b"
           3564707550745061396f743639796577               #     "5dpuPtPa9ot69yew"
        65                                                #   text(5)
           70726f6f66                                     #     "proof"
        a4                                                #   map(4)
           64                                             #     text(4)
              74797065                                    #       "type"
           74                                             #     text(20)
              656432353531395369676e617475726532303138    #       "ed25519Signature2018"
           67                                             #     text(7)
              63726561746564                              #       "created"
           74                                             #     text(20)
              323032302d30352d30315430333a30303a30325a    #       "2020-05-01T03:00:02Z"
           67                                             #     text(7)
              63726561746f72                              #       "creator"
           78 8c                                          #     text(140)
              6469643a6578616d706c653a31324433            #       "did:example:12D3"
              4b6f6f574d4864727a6377706a626472            #       "KooWMHdrzcwpjbdr"
              5a733547477145524176636771583362            #       "Zs5GGqERAvcgqX3b"
              3564707550745061396f743639796577            #       "5dpuPtPa9ot69yew"
              3b206578616d706c653a6b65793d6964            #       "; example:key=id"
              3d626166797265696375627478357771            #       "=bafyreicubtx5wq"
              6f336e6f73633463617a726b63746668            #       "o3nosc4cazrkctfh"
              776436726577657a6770776f65347377            #       "wd6rewezgpwoe4sw"
              69726c733465626468733269                    #       "irls4ebdhs2i"
           6e                                             #     text(14)
              7369676e617475726556616c7565                #       "signatureValue"
           78 58                                          #     text(88)
              6f3972364c78676f474e38466f616565            #       "o9r6LxgoGN8Foaee"
              554136456444637631324776447a4645            #       "UA6EdDcv12GvDzFE"
              6d43676a577a76707572325953517941            #       "mCgjWzvpur2YSQyA"
              3857327230535357554b2b6e4835744d            #       "8W2r0SSWUK+nH5tM"
              717a61464c756e3677775a31456f7433            #       "qzaFLun6wwZ1Eot3"
              37616d4744673d3d                            #       "7amGDg=="
        67                                                #   text(7)
           63726561746564                                 #     "created"
        74                                                #   text(20)
           323031382d31322d30315430333a30303a30305a       #     "2018-12-01T03:00:00Z"
        67                                                #   text(7)
           75706461746564                                 #     "updated"
        74                                                #   text(20)
           323032302d30352d30315430333a30303a30305a       #     "2020-05-01T03:00:00Z"
        68                                                #   text(8)
           40636f6e74657874                               #     "@context"
        78 1c                                             #   text(28)
           68747470733a2f2f7777772e77332e6f               #     "https://www.w3.o"
           72672f6e732f6469642f7631                       #     "rg/ns/did/v1"
        69                                                #   text(9)
           7075626c69634b6579                             #     "verificationMethod"
        81                                                #   array(1)
           a5                                             #     map(5)
              62                                          #       text(2)
                 6964                                     #         "id"
              78 85                                       #       text(133)
                 6261667972656963756274783577716f         #         "bafyreicubtx5wqo"
                 336e6f73633463617a726b6374666877         #         "3nosc4cazrkctfhw"
                 6436726577657a6770776f6534737769         #         "d6rewezgpwoe4swi"
                 726c7334656264687332693b6578616d         #         "rls4ebdhs2i;exam"
                 706c653a6b65793d6964626166797265         #         "ple:key=idbafyre"
                 6963756274783577716f336e6f736334         #         "icubtx5wqo3nosc4"
                 63617a726b6374666877643672657765         #         "cazrkctfhwd6rewe"
                 7a6770776f6534737769726c73346562         #         "zgpwoe4swirls4eb"
                 6468733269                               #         "dhs2i"
              64                                          #       text(4)
                 74797065                                 #         "type"
              6e                                          #       text(14)
                 45644473615075626c69634b6579             #         "EdDsaPublicKey"
              65                                          #       text(5)
                 6375727665                               #         "curve"
              67                                          #       text(7)
                 65643235353139                           #         "ed25519"
              67                                          #       text(7)
                 65787069726573                           #         "expires"
              74                                          #       text(20)
                 323031392d31322d30315430333a30303a30305a #         "2019-12-01T03:00:00Z"
              6f                                          #       text(15)
                 7075626c69634b6579426173653634           #         "publicKeyBase64"
              78 2c                                       #       text(44)
                 716d7a3774704c4e4b4b4b646c376344         #         "qmz7tpLNKKKdl7cD"
                 375062656a4469425670374f4e706d5a         #         "7PbejDiBVp7ONpmZ"
                 62666d633763454b396d673d                 #         "bfmc7cEK9mg="
        6e                                                #   text(14)
           61757468656e7469636174696f6e                   #     "authentication"
        81                                                #   array(1)
           78 83                                          #     text(131)
              6469643a6578616d706c653a31324433            #       "did:example:12D3"
              4b6f6f574d4864727a6377706a626472            #       "KooWMHdrzcwpjbdr"
              5a733547477145524176636771583362            #       "Zs5GGqERAvcgqX3b"
              3564707550745061396f743639796577            #       "5dpuPtPa9ot69yew"
              3b6b65792d69643d6261667972656963            #       ";key-id=bafyreic"
              756274783577716f336e6f7363346361            #       "ubtx5wqo3nosc4ca"
              7a726b63746668776436726577657a67            #       "zrkctfhwd6rewezg"
              70776f6534737769726c733465626468            #       "pwoe4swirls4ebdh"
              733269                                      #       "s2i"
            

### Consumption

When consuming DID Documents that are represented as CBOR, in addition to the
suggestions in section 3.9 of the CBOR [[RFC7049]] specification for
deterministic mappings the following constraints of the DID Document model
MUST be followed:

  * The keys in every map must be sorted lowest value to highest. Sorting is performed on the bytes of the representation of the keys. 
  * Indefinite-length items must be made into definite-length items. 

### CBOR Extensibility

In CBOR, one point of extensibility is with the use of CBOR tags. [[RFC7049]]
defines a basic set of data types, as well as a tagging mechanism that enables
extending the set of data types supported via the [CBOR Tag
Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/cbor-tags/cbor-tags.xhtml). This
allows for tags to enhance the semantic description of the data that follows.

#### DagCBOR

DagCBOR is a further restricted subset of CBOR for representing the DID
Document as a Directed Acyclic Graph model using canonical CBOR encoding as
noted above with additional constraints. DagCBOR requires that there exist a
single way of encoding any given object, and that encoded forms contain no
superfluous data that may be ignored or lost in a round-trip decode/encode.
When producing and consuming DID Documents representing in DagCBOR the
following rules MUST be followed

  * Use no CBOR tags other than the CID tag (42) 

    
    
    { "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "authentication": [
        "did:example:12D3KooWMHdrzcwpjbdrZs5GGqERAvcgqX3b5dpuPtPa9ot69yew;key-id=bafyreicubtx5wqo3nosc4cazrkctfhwd6rewezgpwoe4swirls4ebdhs2i"
      ],
      "created": "2018-12-01T03:00:00Z",
      "id": "did:example:12D3KooWMHdrzcwpjbdrZs5GGqERAvcgqX3b5dpuPtPa9ot69yew",
      "verificationMethod": [
        {
          "curve": "ed25519",
          "expires": "2019-12-01T03:00:00Z",
          "id": "bafyreicubtx5wqo3nosc4cazrkctfhwd6rewezgpwoe4swirls4ebdhs2i;example:key=idbafyreicubtx5wqo3nosc4cazrkctfhwd6rewezgpwoe4swirls4ebdhs2i",
          "publicKeyBase64": "qmz7tpLNKKKdl7cD7PbejDiBVp7ONpmZbfmc7cEK9mg=",
          "type": "EdDsaPublicKey"
        }
      ],
      "updated": "2020-05-01T03:00:00Z"
    }
              

#### COSE signatures

A DID Document proof may be constructed using CBOR semantic tagging, such as
tag 98 for CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE) [[RFC8152]]

    
    
      D8 62                                        # tag(98)
      67                                           #   text(7)
         7061796c6f6164                            #     "payload"
      d8 2a                                        #   tag(42)
         58 25                                     #     bytes(37)
            00017112206c8fdc5c3d2302dda95034       #       "\x00\x01q\x12 l\x8f\xdc\\=#\x02\xdd\xa9P4"
            f9de57a8591918ecb7d7789387c547f7       #       "\xf9\xdeW\xa8Y\x19\x18\xec\xb7\xd7x\x93\x87\xc5G\xf7"
            a89d05e72f                             #       "\xa8\x9d\x05\xe7/"
      69                                           #   text(9)
         70726f746563746564                        #     "protected"
      a0                                           #   map(0)
      6a                                           #   text(10)
         7369676e617475726573                      #     "signatures"
      81                                           #   array(1)
         a3                                        #     map(3)
            69                                     #       text(9)
               70726f746563746564                  #         "protected"
            66                                     #       text(6)
               613130313236                        #         "a10126"
            69                                     #       text(9)
               7369676e6174757265                  #         "signature"
            78 80                                  #       text(128)
               65326165616664343064363964313964    #         "e2aeafd40d69d19d"
               66653665353230373763356437666634    #         "fe6e52077c5d7ff4"
               65343038323832636265666235643036    #         "e408282cbefb5d06"
               63626634313461663265313964393832    #         "cbf414af2e19d982"
               61633435616339386238353434633930    #         "ac45ac98b8544c90"
               38623435303764653165393062373137    #         "8b4507de1e90b717"
               63336433343831366665393236613262    #         "c3d34816fe926a2b"
               39386635336166643266613066333061    #         "98f53afd2fa0f30a"
            6b                                     #       text(11)
               756e70726f746563746564              #         "unprotected"
            a1                                     #       map(1)
               63                                  #         text(3)
                  6b6964                           #           "kid"
               78 85                               #         text(133)
                  6469643a697069643a313244334b6f6f #           "did:ipid:12D3Koo"
                  574d4864727a6377706a6264725a7335 #           "WMHdrzcwpjbdrZs5"
                  47477145524176636771583362356470 #           "GGqERAvcgqX3b5dp"
                  7550745061396f7436397965773b6970 #           "uPtPa9ot69yew;ip"
                  69643a6b65792d69643d626166797265 #           "id:key-id=bafyre"
                  6963756274783577716f336e6f736334 #           "icubtx5wqo3nosc4"
                  63617a726b6374666877643672657765 #           "cazrkctfhwd6rewe"
                  7a6770776f6534737769726c73346562 #           "zgpwoe4swirls4eb"
                  6468733269                       #           "dhs2i"
      6b                                           #   text(11)
         756e70726f746563746564                    #     "unprotected"
      a0                                           #   tag(0)
              

#  Methods

DID methods provide the means to implement this specification on different
verifiable data registries. New DID methods are defined in their own
specifications, so that interoperability between different implementations of
the same DID method is ensured. This section specifies the requirements on any
DID method, which are met by the DID method's associated specification.

For adding properties to a DID document which are specific to a particular DID
method, see .

## Method Schemes

A DID method specification MUST define exactly one method-specific DID scheme,
identified by exactly one method name (see the `method-name` rule in Section
).

The authors of a new DID method specification SHOULD use a method name that is
unique among all DID method names known to them at the time of publication.

Because there is no central authority for allocating or approving DID method
names, there is no way to know for certain if a specific DID method name is
unique. To help with this challenge, a non-authoritative list of known DID
method names and their associated specifications is maintained in the DID
Methods Registry, which is part of [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

Authors of new DID method specifications are encouraged to add their method
names to the DID Method Registry so that other implementors and members of the
community have a place to see an overview of existing DID methods.

The DID method specification MUST specify how to generate the `method-
specific-id` component of a DID.

Case sensitivity and normalization of the value of the `method-specific-id`
rule MUST be defined by the DID method specification.

The `method-specific-id` value MUST be able to be generated without the use of
a centralized registry service.

The `method-specific-id` value SHOULD be globally unique by itself. Any DID
generated by the method MUST be globally unique.

If needed, a method-specific DID scheme MAY define multiple `method-specific-
id` formats.

The `method-specific-id` format MAY include colons. The use of colons MUST
comply syntactically with the `method-specific-id` ABNF rule.

The meaning of colons in the `method-specific-id` is entirely method-specific.
Colons might be used by DID methods for establishing hierarchically
partitioned namespaces, for identifying specific instances or parts of the
verifiable data registry, or for other purposes. Implementers are advised to
avoid assuming any meanings or behaviors associated with a colon that are
generically applicable to all DID methods.

## Method Operations

This section sets out the requirements for DID method specifications with
regards to operations that can be performed on a DID document.

Determining the authority of a party to carry out the operations is method-
specific. For example, a DID method MAY:

  * make use of the `controller` property. 
  * use the verification methods listed under `authentication` to decide whether an update/deactivate operation is allowed. 
  * use other constructs in the DID Document to decide this, for example, a verification method specified under `capabilityInvocation` could be used to verify the invocation of a capability to update the DID Document. 
  * not use the DID Document at all to decide this, but have rules that are "built into" the method. 

Each DID method MUST define how authorization is implemented, including any
necessary cryptographic operations.

###  Create

The DID method specification MUST specify how a DID controller creates a DID
and its associated DID document on the verifiable data registry, including all
cryptographic operations necessary to establish proof of control.

###  Read/Verify

The DID method specification MUST specify how a DID resolver uses a DID to
request a DID document from the verifiable data registry, including how the
DID resolver can verify the authenticity of the response.

###  Update

The DID method specification MUST specify how a DID controller can update a
DID document on the verifiable data registry, including all cryptographic
operations necessary to establish proof of control, _or_ state that updates
are not possible.

An update to a DID is any change, after creation, in the data used to produce
a DID document. DID Method implementers are responsible for defining what
constitutes an update, and what properties of the DID document are supported
by a given DID method. For example, an update operation which replaces key
material without changing it could be a valid update that does not result in
changes to the DID document.

###  Deactivate

The DID method specification MUST specify how a DID controller can deactivate
a DID on the verifiable data registry, including all cryptographic operations
necessary to establish proof of deactivation, _or_ state that deactivation is
not possible.

##  Security Requirements

DID method specifications MUST include their own Security Considerations
sections. This section MUST consider all the requirements mentioned in section
5 of [[RFC3552]] (page 27) for the DID operations defined in the
specification.

At least the following forms of attack MUST be considered: eavesdropping,
replay, message insertion, deletion, modification, and man-in-the-middle.
Potential denial of service attacks MUST be identified as well.

This section MUST discuss, per Section 5 of [[RFC3552]], residual risks (such
as the risks from compromise in a related protocol, incorrect implementation,
or cipher) after threat mitigation was deployed.

This section MUST provide integrity protection and update authentication for
all operations required by Section .

If the technology involves authentication, particularly user-host
authentication, the security of the authentication method MUST be clearly
specified.

DID methods MUST discuss the policy mechanism by which DIDs are proven to be
uniquely assigned. A DID fits the functional definition of a URN, as defined
in [[RFC8141]]. That is, a DID is a persistent identifier that is assigned
once to a resource and never reassigned to a different resource. This is
particularly important in a security context because a DID might be used to
identify a specific party subject to a specific set of authorization rights.

Method-specific endpoint authentication MUST be discussed. Where DID methods
make use of DLTs with varying network topology, sometimes offered as _light
node_ or _[thin client](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Thin_Client_Security)_
implementations to reduce required computing resources, the security
assumptions of the topology available to implementations of the DID method
MUST be discussed.

If the protocol incorporates cryptographic protection mechanisms, the DID
method specification MUST clearly indicate which portions of the data are
protected and what the protections are, and SHOULD give an indication to what
sorts of attacks the cryptographic protection is susceptible. For example,
integrity only, confidentiality, endpoint authentication, and so on.

Data which is to be held secret (keying material, random seeds, and so on)
SHOULD be clearly labeled.

DID method specifications SHOULD explain and specify the implementation of
signatures on DID documents, if applicable.

Where DID methods make use of peer-to-peer computing resources, such as with
all known DLTs, the expected burdens of those resources SHOULD be discussed in
relation to denial of service.

DID methods that introduce new authentication service endpoint types (see
Section ) SHOULD consider the security requirements of the supported
authentication protocol.

##  Privacy Requirements

DID method specifications MUST include their own Privacy Considerations
sections, if only to point to .

The DID method specification's Privacy Considerations section MUST discuss any
subsection of section 5 of [[RFC6973]] that could apply in a method-specific
manner. The subsections to consider are: surveillance, stored data compromise,
unsolicited traffic, misattribution, correlation, identification, secondary
use, disclosure, exclusion.

#  Resolution

This section defines the inputs and outputs of DID resolution and DID URL
dereferencing. These functions are defined in an abstract way. Their exact
implementation is out of scope for this specification, but some considerations
for implementors are discussed in [[?DID-RESOLUTION]].

All conformant DID resolvers MUST implement the DID resolution functions for
at least one DID method and MUST be able to return a DID document in at least
one conformant representation.

##  DID Resolution

The DID resolution functions resolve a DID into a DID document by using the
"Read" operation of the applicable DID method. (See .) The details of how this
process is accomplished are outside the scope of this specification, but all
conformant implementations MUST implement two functions which have the
following abstract forms:

` resolve ( did, did-resolution-input-metadata )  
     -> ( did-resolution-metadata, did-document, did-document-metadata ) `

` resolveRepresentation ( did, did-resolution-input-metadata )  
     -> ( did-resolution-metadata, did-document-stream, did-document-metadata ) `

The input variables of these functions are as follows:

did

     This is the DID to resolve. This input is REQUIRED and the value MUST be a conformant DID expressed as a single string. 
did-resolution-input-metadata

     A metadata structure consisting of input options to the `resolve` and `resolveRepresentation` functions in addition to the `did` itself. Properties defined by this specification are in . This input is REQUIRED, but the structure MAY be empty. 

The output variables of these functions are as follows:

did-resolution-metadata

    

A metadata structure consisting of values relating to the results of the DID
resolution process. This structure is REQUIRED and MUST NOT be empty.

This metadata typically changes between invocations of the `resolve` and
`resolveRepresentation` functions as it represents data about the resolution
process itself. Properties defined by this specification are in .

If the resolution is successful, and if the `resolveRepresentation` function
was called, this structure MUST contain a `content-type` property containing
the mime-type of the `did-document-stream` in this result. If the resolution
is not successful, this structure MUST contain an `error` property describing
the error.

did-document

     If the resolution is successful, and if the `resolve` function was called, this MUST be a conforming DID document. If the resolution is unsuccessful, this value MUST be empty. 
did-document-stream

     If the resolution is successful, and if the `resolveRepresentation` function was called, this MUST be a byte stream of the resolved DID document in one of the conformant representations. The byte stream MAY then be parsed by the caller of the `resolveRepresentation` function into a DID document abstract data model, which can in turn be validated and processed. If the resolution is unsuccessful, this value MUST be an empty stream. 
did-document-metadata

     If the resolution is successful, this MUST be a metadata structure. This structure contains metadata about the DID document contained in the `did-document` or `did-document-stream`. This metadata typically does not change between invocations of the `resolve` function unless the DID document changes, as it represents data about the DID document. If the resolution is unsuccessful, this output MUST be an empty metadata structure. Properties defined by this specification are in . 

DID resolver implementations MUST NOT alter the signature of these functions
in any way. DID resolver implementations MAY map the `resolve` and
`resolveRepresentation` functions to a method-specific internal function to
perform the actual DID resolution process. DID resolver implementations MAY
implement and expose additional functions with different signatures in
addition to the `resolve` function specified here.

###  DID Resolution Input Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values are
defined by [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This specification defines the following
common properties.

accept

     The MIME type of the caller's preferred representation of the DID document. The DID resolver implementation SHOULD use this value to determine the representation contained in the returned `did-document-stream` if such a representation is supported and available. This property is OPTIONAL. It is only used if the `resolveRepresentation` function is called and MUST be ignored if the `resolve` function is called. 

###  DID Resolution Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values are
defined by [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This specification defines the following
common properties.

content-type

     The MIME type of the returned `did-document-stream`. This property is REQUIRED if resolution is successful and if the `resolveRepresentation` function was called. This property MUST NOT be present if the `resolve` function was called. The value of this property MUST be the MIME type of one of the conformant representations. The caller of the `resolveRepresentation` function MUST use this value when determining how to parse and process the `did-document-stream` returned by this function into a DID document abstract data model. 
error

     The error code from the resolution process. This property is REQUIRED when there is an error in the resolution process. The value of this property MUST be a single keyword string. The possible property values of this field SHOULD be registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This specification defines the following error values: 

invalid-did

     The DID supplied to the DID resolution function does not conform to valid syntax. (See .) 
not-found

     The DID resolver was unable to find the DID document resulting from this resolution request. 
deactivated

     The DID supplied to the DID resolution function has been deactivated. (See .) 

###  DID Document Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values SHOULD
be registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].
This specification defines the following common properties.

created

     DID document metadata SHOULD include a `created` property to indicate the timestamp of the Create operation. This property MAY not be supported by a given DID method. The value of the property MUST be a valid XML datetime value, as defined in section 3.3.7 of [W3C XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 2: Datatypes](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema11-2/) [[XMLSCHEMA11-2]]. This datetime value MUST be normalized to UTC 00:00, as indicated by the trailing "Z". 
updated

     DID document metadata SHOULD include an `updated` property to indicate the timestamp of the last Update operation. This property MAY not be supported by a given DID method. The value of the property MUST follow the same formatting rules as the `created` property. 

##  DID URL Dereferencing

The DID URL dereferencing function dereferences a DID URL into a resource with
contents depending on the DID URL's components, including the DID method,
method-specific identifier, path, query, and fragment. This process depends on
DID resolution of the DID contained in the DID URL. The details of how this
process is accomplished are outside the scope of this specification, but all
conformant implementations MUST implement a function which has the following
abstract form:

` dereference ( did-url, did-url-dereferencing-input-metadata )  
         -> ( did-url-dereferencing-metadata, content-stream, content-metadata ) `

The input variables of this function MUST be as follows:

did-url

     A conformant DID URL as a single string. This is the DID URL to dereference. To dereference a DID fragment, the complete DID URL including the DID fragment MUST be used. This input is REQUIRED. 
did-url-dereferencing-input-metadata

     A [metadata structure](metadata-structure) consisting of input options to the `dereference` function in addition to the `did-url` itself. Properties defined by this specification are in . This input is REQUIRED, but the structure MAY be empty. 

The output variables of this function MUST be as follows:

did-url-dereferencing-metadata

     A [metadata structure](metadata-structure) consisting of values relating to the results of the DID URL Dereferencing process. This structure is REQUIRED and in the case of an error in the dereferencing process, this MUST NOT be empty. Properties defined by this specification are in . If the dereferencing is not successful, this structure MUST contain an `error` property describing the error. 
content-stream

     If the `dereferencing` function was called and successful, this MUST contain a resource corresponding to the DID URL. The `content-stream` MAY be a DID document in one of the conformant representations obtained through the resolution process. If the dereferencing is unsuccessful, this value MUST be empty. 
content-metadata

     If the dereferencing is successful, this MUST be a [ metadata structure](metadata-structure), but the structure MAY be empty. This structure contains metadata about the `content-stream`. If the `content-stream` is a DID document, this MUST be a `did-document-metadata` structure as described in DID Resolution. If the dereferencing is unsuccessful, this output MUST be an empty [metadata structure](metadata-structure). 

DID URL Dereferencing implementations MUST NOT alter the signature of these
functions in any way. DID URL Dereferencing implementations MAY map the
`dereference` function to a method-specific internal function to perform the
actual DID URL Dereferencing process. DID URL Dereferencing implementations
MAY implement and expose additional functions with different signatures in
addition to the `dereference` function specified here.

###  DID URL Dereferencing Input Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values SHOULD
be registered in the [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This specification defines the
following common properties.

accept

     The MIME type the caller prefers for `content-stream`. The DID URL Dereferencing implementation SHOULD use this value to determine the representation contained in the returned value if such a representation is supported and available. This property is OPTIONAL. 

###  DID URL Dereferencing Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values are
defined by [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This specification defines the following
common properties.

content-type

     The MIME type of the returned `content-stream`. This property is OPTIONAL if dereferencing is successful. 
error

     The error code from the dereferencing process. This property is REQUIRED when there is an error in the dereferencing process. The value of this property is a single keyword string. The possible property values of this field SHOULD be registered in the DID Specification Registries [DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This specification defines the following error values: 

invalid-did-url

     The DID URL supplied to the DID URL Dereferencing function does not conform to valid syntax. (See .) 
not-found

     The DID URL dereferencer was unable to find the `content-stream` resulting from this dereferencing request. 
deactivated

     The DID in the DID URL supplied to the DID URL dereferencing function has been deactivated. (See .) 

##  Metadata Structure

Input and output metadata is often involved during the DID Resolution, DID URL
Dereferencing, and other DID-related processes. The structure used to
communicate this metadata MUST be a map of properties. Each property name MUST
be a string. Each property value MUST be a string, map, list, boolean, or
null. The values within any complex data structures such as maps and lists
MUST be one of these data types as well. All metadata property definitions
MUST define the value type, including any additional formats or restrictions
to that value (for example, a string formatted as a date or as a decimal
integer). It is RECOMMENDED that property definitions use strings for values.

All implementations of functions that use metadata structures as either input
or output MUST be able to fully represent all data types described here in a
deterministic fashion. As inputs and outputs using metadata structures are
defined in terms of data types and not their serialization, the method for
representation is internal to the implementation of the function and is out of
scope of this specification.

The following example demonstrates a JSON-encoded metadata structure that
might be used as DID resolution input metadata.

    
    
    {
      "accept": "application/did+ld+json"
    }
            

This example corresponds to a metadata structure of the following format:

    
    
    [
      "accept"  "application/did+ld+json"
    ]
            

The next example demonstrates a JSON-encoded metadata structure that might be
used as DID resolution metadata if a DID was not found.

    
    
    {
      "error": "not-found"
    }
            

This example corresponds to a metadata structure of the following format:

    
    
    [
      "error"  "not-found"
    ]
            

The next example demonstrates a JSON-encoded metadata structure that might be
used as DID document metadata to describe timestamps associated with the DID
document.

    
    
    {
      "created": "2019-03-23T06:35:22Z",
      "updated": "2023-08-10T13:40:06Z"
    }
            

This example corresponds to a metadata structure of the following format:

    
    
    [
      "created"  "2019-03-23T06:35:22Z",
      "updated"  "2023-08-10T13:40:06Z"
    ]
            

#  Security Considerations

During the Working Draft stage, this section focuses on security topics that
should be important in early implementations. The editors are seeking feedback
on threats and threat mitigations that should be reflected in this section or
elsewhere in the spec. DIDs are designed to operate under the general Internet
threat model used by many IETF standards. We assume uncompromised endpoints,
but anticipate that messages could be read or corrupted on the network.

##  Choosing DID Resolvers

The DID Method Registry (see [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]] is an informative list
of DID method names and their corresponding DID method specifications.
Implementors need to bear in mind that there is no central authority to
mandate which DID method specification is to be used with any specific DID
method name, but can use the DID Method Registry to make an informed decision
when choosing which DID resolver implementations to use.

##  Binding of Identity

The following sections describe binding identities to DIDs and DID documents.

###  Proving Control of a DID and DID Document

Signatures and verifiable timestamps allow DID documents to be
cryptographically verifiable.

By itself, a verified signature on a self-signed DID document does not prove
control of a DID. It only proves that the:

  * DID document was not tampered with since it was timestamped. 
  * DID controller(s) controlled the private key used for the signature at the time the timestamp was created. 

Proving control of a DID, that is, the binding between the DID and the DID
document that describes it, requires a two step process:

  1. Resolving the DID to a DID document according to its DID method specification. 
  2. Verifying that the `id` property of the resulting DID document matches the DID that was resolved. 

It should be noted that this process proves control of a DID and DID document
regardless of whether the DID document is signed.

Signatures on DID documents are optional. DID method specifications are
expected to explain and specify their implementation if applicable.

###  Proving Control of a Public Key

There are two methods for proving control of the private key corresponding to
a public key description in the DID document: static and dynamic.

The static method is to sign the DID document with the private key. This
proves control of the private key at a time no later than the DID document was
registered. If the DID document is not signed, control of a public key
described in the DID document can still be proven dynamically as follows:

  1. Send a challenge message containing a public key description from the DID document and a nonce to an appropriate service endpoint described in the DID document. 
  2. Verify the signature of the response message against the public key description. 

###  Authentication and Verifiable Claims

A DID and DID document do not inherently carry any [
PII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personally_identifiable_information)
(personally-identifiable information). The process of binding a DID to
something in the real world, such as a person or a company, for example with
credentials with the same subject as that DID, is out of scope for this
specification. For more information, see the [[VC-DATA-MODEL]] instead.

##  Authentication Service Endpoints

If a DID document publishes a service endpoint intended for authentication or
authorization of the DID subject (see Section ), it is the responsibility of
the service endpoint provider, subject, or requesting party to comply with the
requirements of the authentication protocols supported at that service
endpoint.

##  Non-Repudiation

Non-repudiation of DIDs and DID document updates is supported under the
assumption that the subject:

  * Is monitoring for unauthorized updates (see Section ). 
  * Has had adequate opportunity to revert malicious updates according to the access control mechanism for the DID method (see Section ). 

Non-repudiation is further supported if timestamps are included (see Section )
and the target DLT system supports timestamps.

##  Notification of DID Document Changes

One mitigation against unauthorized changes to a DID document is monitoring
and actively notifying the DID subject when there are changes. This is
analogous to helping prevent account takeover on conventional
username/password accounts by sending password reset notifications to the
email addresses on file.

In the case of a DID, there is no intermediary registrar or account provider
to generate such notifications. However, if the verifiable data registry on
which the DID is registered directly supports change notifications, a
subscription service can be offered to DID controllers. Notifications could be
sent directly to the relevant service endpoints listed in an existing DID.

If a DID controller chooses to rely on a third-party monitoring service (other
than the verifiable data registry itself), this introduces another vector of
attack.

##  Key and Signature Expiration

In a decentralized identifier architecture, there are no centralized
authorities to enforce key or signature expiration policies. Therefore DID
resolvers and requesting parties need to validate that keys were not expired
at the time they were used. Because some use cases might have legitimate
reasons why already-expired keys can be extended, make sure a key expiration
does not prevent any further use of the key, and implementations of a resolver
ought to be compatible with such extension behavior.

##  Key Revocation and Recovery

Section  specifies the DID operations to be supported by a DID method
specification, including deactivation of a DID document by replacing it with
an updated DID document. It is also up to the DID method to define how
revocation of cryptographic keys might occur. Additionally, DID method
specifications are also expected to enable support for a quorum of trusted
parties to enable key recovery. Some of the facilities to do so are suggested
in Section . Not all DID method specifications will recognize control from
DIDs registered using other DID methods and they might restrict third-party
control to DIDs that use the same method. Access control and key recovery in a
DID method specification can also include a time lock feature to protect
against key compromise by maintaining a second track of control for recovery.
Further specification of this type of control is a matter for future work.

##  The Role of Human-Friendly Identifiers

DIDs achieve global uniqueness without the need for a central registration
authority. This comes, however, at the cost of human memorability. The
algorithms capable of generating globally unique identifiers automatically
produce random strings of characters that have no human meaning. This
demonstrates the axiom about identifiers described in [Zooko's
Triangle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zooko%27s_triangle): "human-
meaningful, decentralized, secure -- pick any two".

There are of course many use cases where it is desirable to discover a DID
when starting from a human-friendly identifier. For example, a natural
language name, a domain name, or a conventional address for a DID controller,
such as a mobile telephone number, email address, Twitter handle, or blog URL.
However, the problem of mapping human-friendly identifiers to DIDs (and doing
so in a way that can be verified and trusted) is outside the scope of this
specification.

Solutions to this problem should be defined in separate specifications that
reference this specification. It is strongly recommended that such
specifications carefully consider the:

  * Numerous security attacks based on deceiving users about the true human-friendly identifier for a target entity. 
  * Privacy consequences of using human-friendly identifiers that are inherently correlatable, especially if they are globally unique. 

A draft specification for discovering a DID from domain names and email
addresses using DNS lookups is available at [[?DNS-DID]].

##  Immutability

Many cybersecurity abuses hinge on exploiting gaps between reality and the
assumptions of rational, good-faith actors. Like any ecosystem, the DID
ecosystem has some potential for this to occur. Because this specification is
focused on a data model instead of a protocol, it offers no opinion about many
aspects of how that model is put to use. However, individual DID methods might
want to consider constraints that would eliminate behaviors or semantics they
do not need. The more _locked down_ a DID method is, while providing the same
set of features, the less it can be manipulated by malicious actors.

As an example, consider the flexibility that the data model offers with
respect to updating. A single edit to a DID document can change anything and
everything except the root `id` property of the document. And any individual
JSON object in the data model can change all of its properties except its
`id`. But is it actually desirable for a service endpoint to change its `type`
after it is defined? Or for a key to change its value? Or would it be better
to require a new `id` when certain fundamental properties of an object change?
Malicious takeovers of a web site often aim for an outcome where the site
keeps its identifier (the host name), but gets subtle, dangerous changes
underneath. If certain properties of the site were required by the
specification to be immutable (for example, the
[ASN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autonomous_system_\(Internet\)) associated
with its IP address), such attacks might be much harder and more expensive to
carry out, and anomaly detection would be easier.

The notion that immutability provides some cybersecurity benefits is
particularly relevant because of caching. For DID methods tied to a global
source of truth, a direct, just-in-time lookup of the latest version of a DID
document is always possible. However, it seems likely that layers of cache
might eventually sit between a DID resolver and that source of truth. If they
do, believing the attributes of an object in the DID document to have a given
state, when they are actually subtly different, might invite exploits. This is
particularly true if some lookups are of a full DID document, and others are
of partial data, where the larger context is assumed.

##  Encrypted Data in DID Documents

DID documents are typically publicly available. Encryption algorithms have
been known to fail due to advances in cryptography and computing power.
Implementers are advised to assume that any encrypted data placed in a DID
document might eventually be made available in clear text to the same audience
to which the encrypted data is available.

Encrypting all or parts of DID documents is _not_ an appropriate means to
protect data in the long term. Similarly, placing encrypted data in DID
documents is not an appropriate means to include personally identifiable
information.

Given the caveats above, if encrypted data is included in a DID document,
implementers are advised to not encrypt with the public keys of entities that
do not wish to be correlated with the DID.

#  Privacy Considerations

It is critically important to apply the principles of Privacy by Design
[[PRIVACY-BY-DESIGN]] to all aspects of the decentralized identifier
architecture, because DIDs and DID documents are, by design, administered
directly by the DID controller(s). There is no registrar, hosting company, or
other intermediate service provider to recommend or apply additional privacy
safeguards. The authors of this specification have applied all seven Privacy
by Design principles throughout its development. For example, privacy in this
specification is preventative not remedial, and privacy is an embedded
default. Furthermore, the decentralized identifier architecture by itself
embodies Privacy by Design principle #7: "Respect for user privacy -- keep it
user-centric."

This section lists additional privacy considerations that implementers,
delegates, and DID subjects should keep in mind.

##  Keep Personally-Identifiable Information (PII) Private

If a DID method specification is written for a public verifiable data registry
where all DIDs and DID documents are publicly available, it is _critical_ that
DID documents contain no personal data. All personal data should be kept
behind service endpoints under the control of the DID subject. Additional due
diligence should be taken around the use of URLs in service endpoints as well
to prevent leakage of unintentional personal data or correlation within a URL
of a service endpoint. For example, a URL that contains a username is likely
dangerous to include in a DID Document because the username is likely to be
human-meaningful in a way that can unintentionally reveal information that the
DID subject did not consent to sharing. With this privacy architecture,
personal data can be exchanged on a private, peer-to-peer basis using
communications channels identified and secured by public key descriptions in
DID documents. This also enables DID subjects and requesting parties to
implement the
[GDPR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation)
[right to be forgotten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right_to_be_forgotten),
because no personal data is written to an immutable distributed ledger.

##  DID Correlation Risks and Pseudonymous DIDs

Like any type of globally unique identifier, DIDs might be used for
correlation. DID controllers can mitigate this privacy risk by using pairwise
unique DIDs, that is, sharing a different private DID for every relationship.
In effect, each DID acts as a pseudonym. A pseudonymous DID need only be
shared with more than one party when the DID subject explicitly authorizes
correlation between those parties. If pseudonymous DIDs are the default, then
the only need for a public DID (a DID published openly or shared with a large
number of parties) is when the DID subject explicitly desires public
identification.

##  DID Document Correlation Risks

The anti-correlation protections of pseudonymous DIDs are easily defeated if
the data in the corresponding DID documents can be correlated. For example,
using same public key descriptions or bespoke service endpoints in multiple
DID documents can provide as much correlation information as using the same
DID. Therefore the DID document for a pseudonymous DID also needs to use
pairwise unique public keys. It might seem natural to also use pairwise unique
service endpoints in the DID document for a pseudonymous DID. However, unique
endpoints allow all traffic between two DIDs to be isolated perfectly into
unique buckets, where timing correlation and similar analysis is easy.
Therefore, a better strategy for endpoint privacy might be to share an
endpoint among thousands or millions of DIDs controlled by many different
subjects.

##  Assigning a type to the DID subject

It is dangerous to add properties to the DID document that can be used to
indicate, explicitly or through inference, what _type_ or nature of thing the
DID subject is, particularly if the DID subject is a person.

Not only do such properties potentially result in personally identifiable
information (see ) or correlatable data (see  and ) being present in the DID
document, but they can be used for grouping particular DIDs in such a way that
they are included in or excluded from certain operations or functionalities.

Including _type_ information in a DID Document can result in personal privacy
harms even for DID Subjects that are non-person entities, such as IoT devices.
The aggregation of such information around a DID Controller could serve as a
form of digital fingerprint and this is best avoided.

To minimize these risks, all properties in a DID document ought to be for
expressing cryptographic material, endpoints, or verification methods related
to using the DID.

##  Herd Privacy

When a DID subject is indistinguishable from others in the herd, privacy is
available. When the act of engaging privately with another party is by itself
a recognizable flag, privacy is greatly diminished. DIDs and DID methods need
to work to improve herd privacy, particularly for those who legitimately need
it most. Choose technologies and human interfaces that default to preserving
anonymity and pseudonymity. To reduce [ digital
fingerprints](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Device_fingerprint), share common
settings across requesting party implementations, keep negotiated options to a
minimum on wire protocols, use encrypted transport layers, and pad messages to
standard lengths.

#  Examples

##  DID Documents

See [did-spec-registries](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-spec-
registries/#verification-method-types) for optional extensions and other
verifcation method types.

These examples are for information purposes only, it is considered a best
practice to avoid using the same verification method for multiple purposes.

    
    
            {
              "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
              "id": "did:example:123",
              "authentication": [
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#z6MkecaLyHuYWkayBDLw5ihndj3T1m6zKTGqau3A51G7RBf3",
                  "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyBase58": "AKJP3f7BD6W4iWEQ9jwndVTCBq8ua2Utt8EEjJ6Vxsf"
                }
              ],
              "capabilityInvocation": [
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#z6MkhdmzFu659ZJ4XKj31vtEDmjvsi5yDZG5L7Caz63oP39k",
                  "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyBase58": "4BWwfeqdp1obQptLLMvPNgBw48p7og1ie6Hf9p5nTpNN"
                }
              ],
              "capabilityDelegation": [
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#z6Mkw94ByR26zMSkNdCUi6FNRsWnc2DFEeDXyBGJ5KTzSWyi",
                  "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyBase58": "Hgo9PAmfeoxHG8Mn2XHXamxnnSwPpkyBHAMNF3VyXJCL"
                }
              ],
              "assertionMethod": [
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#z6MkiukuAuQAE8ozxvmahnQGzApvtW7KT5XXKfojjwbdEomY",
                  "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyBase58": "5TVraf9itbKXrRvt2DSS95Gw4vqU3CHAdetoufdcKazA"
                }
              ]
          }
          
    
    
            {
              "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
              "id": "did:example:123",
              "verificationMethod": [
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#ZC2jXTO6t4R501bfCXv3RxarZyUbdP2w_psLwMuY6ec",
                  "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
                },
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#zQ3shP2mWsZYWgvgM11nenXRTx9L1yiJKmkf9dfX7NaMKb1pX",
                  "type": "EcdsaSecp256k1VerificationKey2019",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyBase58": "d5cW2R53NHTTkv7EQSYR8YxaKx7MVCcchjmK5EgCNXxo",
                },
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A",
                  "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyJwk": {
                    "kty": "OKP",
                    "crv": "Ed25519",
                    "x": "VCpo2LMLhn6iWku8MKvSLg2ZAoC-nlOyPVQaO3FxVeQ"
                  }
                },
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#z6LSnjagzhe8Df6gZmroW3wjDd7XQLwAuYfwa4ZeTBCGFoYc",
                  "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyJwk": {
                    "kty": "OKP",
                    "crv": "X25519",
                    "x": "pE_mG098rdQjY3MKK2D5SUQ6ZOEW3a6Z6T7Z4SgnzCE"
                  },
                }
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#4SZ-StXrp5Yd4_4rxHVTCYTHyt4zyPfN1fIuYsm6k3A",
                  "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyJwk": {
                    "kty": "EC",
                    "crv": "secp256k1",
                    "x": "Z4Y3NNOxv0J6tCgqOBFnHnaZhJF6LdulT7z8A-2D5_8",
                    "y": "i5a2NtJoUKXkLm6q8nOEu9WOkso1Ag6FTUT6k_LMnGk"
                  }
                },
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#n4cQ-I_WkHMcwXBJa7IHkYu8CMfdNcZKnKsOrnHLpFs",
                  "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyJwk": {
                    "kty": "RSA",
                    "e": "AQAB",
                    "n": "omwsC1AqEk6whvxyOltCFWheSQvv1MExu5RLCMT4jVk9khJKv8JeMXWe3bWHatjPskdf2dlaGkW5QjtOnUKL742mvr4tCldKS3ULIaT1hJInMHHxj2gcubO6eEegACQ4QSu9LO0H-LM_L3DsRABB7Qja8HecpyuspW1Tu_DbqxcSnwendamwL52V17eKhlO4uXwv2HFlxufFHM0KmCJujIKyAxjD_m3q__IiHUVHD1tDIEvLPhG9Azsn3j95d-saIgZzPLhQFiKluGvsjrSkYU5pXVWIsV-B2jtLeeLC14XcYxWDUJ0qVopxkBvdlERcNtgF4dvW4X00EHj4vCljFw"
                  }
                },
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#_TKzHv2jFIyvdTGF1Dsgwngfdg3SH6TpDv0Ta1aOEkw",
                  "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyJwk": {
                    "kty": "EC"
                    "crv": "P-256",
                    "x": "38M1FDts7Oea7urmseiugGW7tWc3mLpJh6rKe7xINZ8",
                    "y": "nDQW6XZ7b_u2Sy9slofYLlG03sOEoug3I0aAPQ0exs4"
                  }
                },
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#8wgRfY3sWmzoeAL-78-oALNvNj67ZlQxd1ss_NX1hZY",
                  "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyJwk": {
                    "kty": "EC",
                    "crv": "P-384",
                    "x": "GnLl6mDti7a2VUIZP5w6pcRX8q5nvEIgB3Q_5RI2p9F_QVsaAlDN7IG68Jn0dS_F",
                    "y": "jq4QoAHKiIzezDp88s_cxSPXtuXYFliuCGndgU4Qp8l91xzD1spCmFIzQgVjqvcP"
                  }
                },
                {
                  "id": "did:example:123#NjQ6Y_ZMj6IUK_XkgCDwtKHlNTUTVjEYOWZtxhp1n-E",
                  "type": "JsonWebKey2020",
                  "controller": "did:example:123",
                  "publicKeyJwk": {
                    "kty": "EC",
                    "crv": "P-521",
                    "x": "AVlZG23LyXYwlbjbGPMxZbHmJpDSu-IvpuKigEN2pzgWtSo--Rwd-n78nrWnZzeDc187Ln3qHlw5LRGrX4qgLQ-y",
                    "y": "ANIbFeRdPHf1WYMCUjcPz-ZhecZFybOqLIJjVOlLETH7uPlyG0gEoMWnIZXhQVypPy_HtUiUzdnSEPAylYhHBTX2"
                  }
                }
              ]
            }
          

##  Proving

These examples are for information purposes only. See [ W3C Verifiable
Credentials Data Model ](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/) for additional
examples.

    
    
          {
            "@context": [
              "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
              "https://w3id.org/citizenship/v1"
            ],
            "type": [
              "VerifiableCredential",
              "PermanentResidentCard"
            ],
            "credentialSubject": {
              "id": "did:example:123",
              "type": [
                "PermanentResident",
                "Person"
              ],
              "givenName": "JOHN",
              "familyName": "SMITH",
              "gender": "Male",
              "image": "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgo...kJggg==",
              "residentSince": "2015-01-01",
              "lprCategory": "C09",
              "lprNumber": "000-000-204",
              "commuterClassification": "C1",
              "birthCountry": "Bahamas",
              "birthDate": "1958-08-17"
            },
            "issuer": "did:example:456",
            "issuanceDate": "2020-04-22T10:37:22Z",
            "identifier": "83627465",
            "name": "Permanent Resident Card",
            "description": "Government of Example Permanent Resident Card.",
            "proof": {
              "type": "Ed25519Signature2018",
              "created": "2020-04-22T10:37:22Z",
              "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
              "verificationMethod": "did:example:456#key-1",
              "jws": "eyJjcml0IjpbImI2NCJdLCJiNjQiOmZhbHNlLCJhbGciOiJFZERTQSJ9..BhWew0x-txcroGjgdtK-yBCqoetg9DD9SgV4245TmXJi-PmqFzux6Cwaph0r-mbqzlE17yLebjfqbRT275U1AA"
            }
          }
        
    
    
    {
      "@context": [
        "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
        "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
      ],
      "id": "http://example.gov/credentials/3732",
      "type": ["VerifiableCredential", "UniversityDegreeCredential"],
      "issuer": { "id": "did:example:123" },
      "issuanceDate": "2020-03-10T04:24:12.164Z",
      "credentialSubject": {
        "id": "did:example:456",
        "degree": {
          "type": "BachelorDegree",
          "name": "Bachelor of Science and Arts"
        }
      },
      "proof": {
        "type": "JsonWebSignature2020",
        "created": "2020-02-15T17:13:18Z",
        "verificationMethod": "did:example:123#_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A",
        "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
        "jws": "eyJiNjQiOmZhbHNlLCJjcml0IjpbImI2NCJdLCJhbGciOiJFZERTQSJ9..Y0KqovWCPAeeFhkJxfQ22pbVl43Z7UI-X-1JX32CA9MkFHkmNprcNj9Da4Q4QOl0cY3obF8cdDRdnKr0IwNrAw"
      }
    }
          
    
    
            {
              "protected": {
                "kid": "did:example:123#_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A",
                "alg": "EdDSA"
              },
              "payload": {
                "iss": "did:example:123",
                "sub": "did:example:456",
                "vc": {
                  "@context": [
                    "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
                    "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
                  ],
                  "id": "http://example.gov/credentials/3732",
                  "type": [
                    "VerifiableCredential",
                    "UniversityDegreeCredential"
                  ],
                  "issuer": {
                    "id": "did:example:123"
                  },
                  "issuanceDate": "2020-03-10T04:24:12.164Z",
                  "credentialSubject": {
                    "id": "did:example:456",
                    "degree": {
                      "type": "BachelorDegree",
                      "name": "Bachelor of Science and Arts"
                    }
                  }
                },
                "jti": "http://example.gov/credentials/3732",
                "nbf": 1583814252
              },
              "signature": "qSv6dpZJGFybtcifLwGf4ujzlEu-fam_M7HPxinCbVhz9iIJCg70UMeQbPa1ex6BmQ2tnSS7F11FHnMB2bJRAw"
            }
          

##  Encrypting

These examples are for information purposes only, it is considered a best
practice to avoid dislosing unnecessary information in JWE headers.

    
    
            {
              "ciphertext": "3SHQQJajNH6q0fyAHmw...",
              "iv": "QldSPLVnFf2-VXcNLza6mbylYwphW57Q",
              "protected": "eyJlbmMiOiJYQzIwUCJ9",
              "recipients": [
                {
                  "encrypted_key": "BMJ19zK12YHftJ4sr6Pz1rX1HtYni_L9DZvO1cEZfRWDN2vXeOYlwA",
                  "header": {
                    "alg": "ECDH-ES+A256KW",
                    "apu": "Tx9qG69ZfodhRos-8qfhTPc6ZFnNUcgNDVdHqX1UR3s",
                    "apv": "ZGlkOmVsZW06cm9wc3RlbjpFa...",
                    "epk": {
                      "crv": "X25519",
                      "kty": "OKP",
                      "x": "Tx9qG69ZfodhRos-8qfhTPc6ZFnNUcgNDVdHqX1UR3s"
                    },
                    "kid": "did:example:123#zC1Rnuvw9rVa6E5TKF4uQVRuQuaCpVgB81Um2u17Fu7UK"
                  }
                }
              ],
              "tag": "xbfwwDkzOAJfSVem0jr1bA"
            }
          

# Current Issues

The list of issues below are under active discussion and are likely to result
in changes to this specification.

Cheap DIDs and the option to migrate DIDs between ledgers using standard DID
Deprecation Registries

Registry handling

Privacy Considerations - Specifically call out GDPR

Horizontal Review: Internationalization self test

Horizontal Review: Accessibility self test

Specification needs to be compliant with WCAG 2.0

Horizontal Review: offer review opportunity to TAG

Include discussion of eIDAS levels-of-assurance

Uses of terms defined in the specification should be links to their
definitions

Public key "id" and "type" members duplicate JWK "kid" and "kty" members

Underspecified semantics of "updated" property

Clarification on what DIDs might identify

How to treat unknown properties

IETF did+ld+json media type registration

Should did-core restrict the use of JWK?

How to mitigate the single source of failure wrt/ "Trust into the Universal
Resolver"?

Added DID resolution and dereferencing contracts.

Put key points up front

Added CBOR section

PING Horizontal Review

Horizontal Review Tracking

Define simple type-less resolution function

Define resolution function with data types

Define resolution function with data types and property values

Define resolution function with data types, property values, and simple
metadata structures

Define resolution function with data types, property values, and full metadata
structures

Define resolution function with data types, property values, and full metadata
structures, without transformation

#  IANA Considerations

This section will be submitted to the Internet Engineering Steering Group
(IESG) for review, approval, and registration with IANA when this
specification becomes a W3C Proposed Recommendation.

## application/did+json

Type name:

    application
Subtype name:

    did+json
Required parameters:

    None
Optional parameters:

    None
Encoding considerations:

     See RFC 8259, section 11. 
Security considerations:

     See RFC 8259, section 12 [[RFC8259]]. 
Interoperability considerations:

    Not Applicable
Published specification:

    http://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/
Applications that use this media type:

     Any application that requires an identifier that is decentralized, persistent, cryptographically verifiable, and resolvable. Applications typically consist of cryptographic identity systems, decentralized networks of devices, and websites that issue or verify W3C Verifiable Credentials. 
Additional information:

    

Magic number(s):

    Not Applicable
File extension(s):

    .did
Macintosh file type code(s):

    TEXT
Person & email address to contact for further information:

    Ivan Herman <ivan@w3.org>
Intended usage:

    Common
Restrictions on usage:

    None
Author(s):

     Drummond Reed, Manu Sporny, Markus Sabadello, Dave Longley, Christopher Allen 
Change controller:

    W3C

Fragment identifiers used with application/did+json are treated according to
the rules defined in .

## application/did+ld+json

Type name:

    application
Subtype name:

    did+ld+json
Required parameters:

    None
Optional parameters:

    None
Encoding considerations:

     See RFC 8259, section 11. 
Security considerations:

     See JSON-LD 1.1, Security Considerations [[JSON-LD11]]. 
Interoperability considerations:

    Not Applicable
Published specification:

    http://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/
Applications that use this media type:

     Any application that requires an identifier that is decentralized, persistent, cryptographically verifiable, and resolvable. Applications typically consist of cryptographic identity systems, decentralized networks of devices, and websites that issue or verify W3C Verifiable Credentials. 
Additional information:

    

Magic number(s):

    Not Applicable
File extension(s):

    .did
Macintosh file type code(s):

    TEXT
Person & email address to contact for further information:

    Ivan Herman <ivan@w3.org>
Intended usage:

    Common
Restrictions on usage:

    None
Author(s):

     Drummond Reed, Manu Sporny, Markus Sabadello, Dave Longley, Christopher Allen 
Change controller:

    W3C

Fragment identifiers used with application/did+ld+json are treated according
to the rules associated with the JSON-LD 1.1: application/ld+json media type
[[JSON-LD11]].

## application/did+cbor

Type name:

    application
Subtype name:

    did+cbor
Required parameters:

    None
Optional parameters:

    None
Encoding considerations:

     See RFC 7049, section 4.2. 
Security considerations:

     See RFC 7049, section 10 [[RFC7049]]. 
Interoperability considerations:

    Not Applicable
Published specification:

    http://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/
Applications that use this media type:

     Any application that requires an identifier that is decentralized, persistent, cryptographically verifiable, and resolvable. Applications typically consist of cryptographic identity systems, decentralized networks of devices, and websites that issue or verify W3C Verifiable Credentials. 
Additional information:

    

Magic number(s):

    Not Applicable
File extension(s):

    .did
Macintosh file type code(s):

    TEXT
Person & email address to contact for further information:

    Ivan Herman <ivan@w3.org>
Intended usage:

    Common
Restrictions on usage:

    None
Author(s):

    Drummond Reed, Manu Sporny, Markus Sabadello, Dave Longley, Christopher Allen, Jonathan Holt
Change controller:

    W3C

Fragment identifiers used with application/did+cbor are treated according to
the rules defined in .

## application/did+dag+cbor

Type name:

    application
Subtype name:

    did+dag+cbor
Required parameters:

    None
Optional parameters:

    None
Encoding considerations:

     See RFC 7049, section 4.2. 
Security considerations:

     See RFC 7049, section 10 [[RFC7049]]. 
Interoperability considerations:

    Not Applicable
Published specification:

    http://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/
Applications that use this media type:

     Any application that requires an identifier that is decentralized, persistent, cryptographically verifiable, and resolvable. Applications typically consist of cryptographic identity systems, decentralized networks of devices, and websites that issue or verify W3C Verifiable Credentials. 
Additional information:

    

Magic number(s):

    Not Applicable
File extension(s):

    .did
Macintosh file type code(s):

    TEXT
Person & email address to contact for further information:

    Ivan Herman <ivan@w3.org>
Intended usage:

    Common
Restrictions on usage:

    None
Author(s):

    Drummond Reed, Manu Sporny, Markus Sabadello, Dave Longley, Christopher Allen, Jonathan Holt
Change controller:

    W3C

Fragment identifiers used with application/did+dag+cbor are treated according
to the rules defined in .

  *[MAC]: Media Access Control

