---
#Fri 02 Apr 2021 06:02:46 AM UTC
commit:
  COMMIT_HASH: "7e52b5faa9ac9b997f8b2b11df500b623b81db87"
  COMMIT_AUTHOR: "Markus Sabadello <markus@danubetech.com> 1612351079 +0100"
  COMMIT_COMMITTER: "Manu Sporny <msporny@digitalbazaar.com> 1612977441 -0500"
  COMMIT_PARENT: "dff38756ad2669625ec874db2d2ca31c3eb5946c"
  COMMIT_TREE: "46d34efef2e9f233cfc6af202b8c679bf75ad729"
  COMMIT_DATA: "2021-02-10T12:17:21-05:00"
  COMMIT_DATE: "2021-02-10"
  COMMIT_TIME: "17:17:21"
  COMMIT_TIMESTAMP: "2021-02-10T17:17:21"
  COMMIT_LINE: ""Add diagram QUOTEDID document entriesQUOTE."
  COMMIT_RUNNABLE: "file:///home/ewelton/Desktop/I/did-biometrics/did-core-dataset/analysis/gitinfo/7e52b5faa9ac9b997f8b2b11df500b623b81db87/snapshot/index.html"
---

Decentralized identifiers (DIDs) are a new type of identifier that enables
verifiable, decentralized digital identity. A DID identifies any subject
(e.g., a person, organization, thing, data model, abstract entity, etc.) that
the controller of the DID decides that it identifies. In contrast to typical,
federated identifiers, DIDs have been designed so that they may be decoupled
from centralized registries, identity providers, and certificate authorities.
Specifically, while other parties might be used to help enable the discovery
of information related to a DID, the design enables the controller of a DID to
prove control over it without requiring permission from any other party. DIDs
are URIs that associate a DID subject with a DID document allowing trustable
interactions associated with that subject.

Each DID document can express cryptographic material, verification methods, or
services, which provide a set of mechanisms enabling a DID controller to prove
control of the DID. Services enable trusted interactions associated with the
DID subject. A DID might provide the means to return the DID subject itself,
if the DID subject is an information resource such as a data model.

This document specifies a common data model, a URL format, and a set of
operations for DIDs, DID documents, and DID methods.

This specification is under active development and implementers are advised
against implementing the specification unless they are directly involved with
the W3C DID Working Group. There are use cases [[?DID-USE-CASES]] in active
development that establish requirements for this document.

At present, there exist [80 experimental
implementations](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-method-registry/#did-methods)
and a preliminary [test suite](https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-test-suite/)
that will eventually determine whether or not implementations are conformant.
Readers are advised that Appendix  contains a list of concerns and proposed
changes that will most likely result in alterations to this specification.

Comments regarding this document are welcome. Please file issues directly on
[GitHub](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/), or send them to [public-
did-wg@w3.org](mailto:public-did-wg@w3.org) ( [subscribe](mailto:public-did-
wg-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe),
[archives](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/)).

Portions of the work on this specification have been funded by the United
States Department of Homeland Security's (US DHS) Science and Technology
Directorate under contracts HSHQDC-16-R00012-H-SB2016-1-002, and
HSHQDC-17-C-00019, as well as the US DHS Silicon Valley Innovation Program
under contracts 70RSAT20T00000010, 70RSAT20T00000029, 70RSAT20T00000030. The
content of this specification does not necessarily reflect the position or the
policy of the U.S. Government and no official endorsement should be inferred.

Portions of the work on this specification have also been funded by the
European Union's StandICT.eu program under sub-grantee contract number
CALL05/19.

Work on this specification has also been supported by the Rebooting the Web of
Trust community facilitated by Christopher Allen, Shannon Appelcline, Kiara
Robles, Brian Weller, Betty Dhamers, Kaliya Young, Kim Hamilton Duffy, Manu
Sporny, Drummond Reed, Joe Andrieu, and Heather Vescent.

# Introduction

As individuals and organizations, many of us use globally unique identifiers
in a wide variety of contexts. They serve as communications addresses
(telephone numbers, email addresses, usernames on social media), ID numbers
(for passports, drivers licenses, tax IDs, health insurance), and product
identifiers (serial numbers, barcodes, RFIDs). Resources on the Internet are
identified by globally unique identifiers in the form of MAC addresses; URIs
(Uniform Resource Identifiers) are used for resources on the Web and each web
page you view in a browser has a globally unique URL (Uniform Resource
Locator).

The vast majority of these globally unique identifiers are not under our
control. They are issued by external authorities that decide who or what they
identify and when they can be revoked. They are useful only in certain
contexts and recognized only by certain bodies (not of our choosing). They may
disappear or cease to be valid with the failure of an organization. They may
unnecessarily reveal personal information. And in many cases they can be
fraudulently replicated and asserted by a malicious third-party ("identity
theft").

The Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) defined in this specification are a new
type of globally unique identifier designed to enable individuals and
organizations to generate our own identifiers using systems we trust, and to
prove control of those identifiers (authenticate) using cryptographic proofs
(for example, digital signatures).

Because we control the generation and assertion of these identifiers, each of
us can have as many DIDs as we need to respect our desired separation of
identities, personas, and contexts (in the everyday sense of these words). We
can scope the use of these identifiers to the most appropriate contexts. We
can interact with other people, institutions or systems that require us to
identify ourselves (or things we control) while maintaining control over how
much personal or private data should be revealed, and without depending on a
central authority to guarantee the continued existence of the identifier.

This specification does not presuppose any particular technology or
cryptography to underpin the generation, persistence, resolution or
interpretation of DIDs. Rather, it defines: a) the generic syntax for all
DIDs, and b) the generic requirements for performing the four basic CRUD
operations (create, read, update, deactivate) on the information associated
with a DID (called the DID document).

This enables implementers to design specific types of DIDs to work with the
computing infrastructure they trust (e.g., distributed ledger, decentralized
file system, distributed database, peer-to-peer network). The specification
for a specific type of DID is called a DID method. Implementers of
applications or systems using DIDs can choose to support the DID methods most
appropriate for their particular use cases.

This specification is for:

  * Developers who want to enable users of their system to generate and assert their own identifiers (producers of DIDs); 
  * Developers who want to enable their systems to accept user-controlled identifiers (consumers of DIDs); 
  * Developers who wish to enable the use of DIDs with particular computing infrastructure (DID method developers). 

DID methods can also be developed for identifiers registered in federated or
centralized identity management systems. Indeed, almost all types of
identifier systems can add support for DIDs. This creates an interoperability
bridge between the worlds of centralized, federated, and decentralized
identifiers.

## A Simple Example

A DID is a simple text string consisting of three parts, the:

  * URI scheme identifier (`did`) 
  * Identifier for the DID method
  * DID method-specific identifier. 

    
    
    did:example:123456789abcdefghi
          

The example DID above resolves to a DID document. A DID document contains
information associated with the DID, such as ways to cryptographically
authenticate the DID controller, as well as services that can be used to
interact with the DID subject.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      "authentication": [{
        // used to authenticate as did:...fghi
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
      }],
      "service": [{
        // used to retrieve Verifiable Credentials associated with the DID
        "id":"did:example:123456789abcdefghi#vcs",
        "type": "VerifiableCredentialService", // external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com/vc/"
      }]
    }
          

## Design Goals

Decentralized Identifiers are a component of larger systems, such as the
Verifiable Credentials ecosystem [[VC-DATA-MODEL]], which drove the design
goals for this specification. These design goals are summarized here.

Goal  |  Description  
---|---  
Decentralization  |  Eliminate the requirement for centralized authorities or
single point failure in identifier management, including the registration of
globally unique identifiers, public verification keys, services, and other
information.  
Control  |  Give entities, both human and non-human, the power to directly
control their digital identifiers without the need to rely on external
authorities.  
Privacy  |  Enable entities to control the privacy of their information,
including minimal, selective, and progressive disclosure of attributes or
other data.  
Security  |  Enable sufficient security for requesting parties to depend on
DID documents for their required level of assurance.  
Proof-based  |  Enable DID controllers to provide cryptographic proof when
interacting with other entities.  
Discoverability  |  Make it possible for entities to discover DIDs for other
entities, to learn more about or interact with those entities.  
Interoperability  |  Use interoperable standards so DID infrastructure can
make use of existing tools and software libraries designed for
interoperability.  
Portability  |  Be system- and network-independent and enable entities to use
their digital identifiers with any system that supports DIDs and DID methods.  
Simplicity  |  Favor a reduced set of simple features to make the technology
easier to understand, implement, and deploy.  
Extensibility  |  Where possible, enable extensibility provided it does not
greatly hinder interoperability, portability, or simplicity.  
  
##  Architecture Overview

This section provides a basic understanding of the major elements of DID
architecture. Formal definitions of terms are provided in .

![

Diagram showing that DIDs are recorded on a Verifiable Data Registry; DIDs

resolve to DID documents; DIDs identify DID subjects; a DID controller can

modify a DID document; a DID method generates a DID; a DID method instructs a

DID resolver.

          ](diagrams/did_architecture_overview.svg) The basic components of DID architecture. 

DIDs and DID URLs

     A DID, or Decentralized Identifier, is a URI composed of three parts: the scheme "did:", a method identifier, and a unique, method-specific identifier generated by the DID method. DIDs are resolvable to DID documents. A DID URL extends the syntax of a basic DID to incorporate other standard URI components (path, query, fragment) in order to locate a particular resource--for example, a public key inside a DID document, or a resource available external to the DID document. 
DID Subjects

     The subject of a DID is, by definition, the entity identified by the DID. The DID subject may also be the DID controller. Anything can be the subject of a DID: person, group, organization, physical thing, logical thing, etc. 
DID Controllers

     The controller of a DID is the entity (person, organization, or autonomous software) that has the capability--as defined by a DID method--to make changes to a DID document. This capability is typically asserted by the control of a set of cryptographic keys used by software acting on behalf of the controller, though it may also be asserted via other mechanisms. Note that a DID may have more than one controller, and the DID subject can be the DID controller, or one of them. 
Verifiable Data Registries

     In order to be resolvable to DID documents, DIDs are typically recorded on an underlying system or network of some kind. Regardless of the specific technology used, any such system that supports recording DIDs and returning data necessary to produce DID documents is called a verifiable data registry. Examples include distributed ledgers, decentralized file systems, databases of any kind, peer-to-peer networks, and other forms of trusted data storage. 
DID documents

     DID documents contain information associated with a DID. They typically express verification methods (such as public keys) and services relevant to interactions with the DID subject. A DID document can be serialized according to a particular syntax (see Section ). The generic properties supported in a DID document are specified in . The DID itself is the value of the `id` property. The properties present in a DID document may be updated according to the applicable operations outlined in . 
DID Methods

     DID methods are the mechanism by which a particular type of DID and its associated DID document are created, resolved, updated, and deactivated using a particular verifiable data registry. DID methods are defined using separate DID method specifications (see ). 

Conceptually, the relationship between this specification and a DID method
specification is similar to the relationship between the IETF generic URI
specification ([[RFC3986]]) and a specific URI scheme ([[IANA-URI-SCHEMES]]
(such as the http: and https: schemes specified in [[RFC7230]]). It is also
similar to the relationship between the IETF generic URN specification
([[RFC8141]]) and a specific URN namespace definition (such as the UUID URN
namespace defined in [[RFC4122]]). The difference is that a DID method
specification, as well as defining a specific DID scheme, also specifies the
methods creating, resolving, updating, and deactivating DIDs and DID documents
using a specific type of verifiable data registry.

DID resolvers and DID resolution

     A DID resolver is a software and/or hardware component that takes a DID (and associated input metadata) as input and produces a conforming DID document (and associated metadata) as output. This process is called DID resolution. The inputs and outputs of the DID resolution process are defined in . The specific steps for resolving a specific type of DID are defined by the relevant DID method specification. Additional considerations for implementing a DID resolver are discussed in [[DID-RESOLUTION]]. 
DID URL dereferencers and DID URL dereferencing

     A DID URL dereferencer is a software and/or hardware component that takes a DID URL (and associated input metadata) as input and produces a resource (and associated metadata) as output. This process is called DID URL dereferencing. The inputs and outputs of the DID URL dereferencing process are defined in . Additional considerations for implementing a DID URL dereferencer are discussed in [[DID-RESOLUTION]]. 

This document contains examples that contain JSON, CBOR, and JSON-LD content.
Some of these examples contain characters that are invalid, such as inline
comments (`//`) and the use of ellipsis (`...`) to denote information that
adds little value to the example. Implementers are cautioned to remove this
content if they desire to use the information as valid JSON, CBOR, or JSON-LD.

Some examples contain terms (both property names and values) that are not
defined in this specification, for illustrative purposes. These are indicated
with a comment (`// external (property name|value)`). Such terms, when used in
a DID document, are expected to be registered in the DID Specification
Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]] with links to both a formal definition and
JSON-LD context.

Interoperability of implementations for DIDs and DID documents will be tested
by evaluating an implementation's ability to create and parse DIDs and DID
documents that conform to the specification. Interoperability for producers
and consumers of DIDs and DID documents is provided by ensuring the DIDs and
DID documents conform. Interoperability for DID method specifications is
provided by the details in each DID method specification. It is understood
that, in the same way that a web browser is not required to implement all
known URI schemes, conformant software that works with DIDs is not required to
implement all known DID methods (however, all implementations of a given DID
method must be interoperable for that method).

A conforming DID is any concrete expression of the rules specified in Section
which complies with relevant normative statements in that section.

A conforming DID document is any concrete expression of the data model
described in this specification which complies with the relevant normative
statements in Sections  and . A serialization format for the conforming
document is deterministic, bi-directional, and lossless as described in
Section .

A conforming DID method is any specification that complies with the relevant
normative statements in Section .

A conforming producer is any algorithm realized as software and/or hardware
and conforms to this specification if it generates conforming DIDs or
conforming DID Documents. A conforming producer MUST NOT produce non-
conforming DIDs or DID documents.

A conforming consumer is any algorithm realized as software and/or hardware
and conforms to this specification if it consumes conforming DIDs or
conforming DID documents. A conforming consumer MUST produce errors when
consuming non-conforming DIDs or DID documents.

## Terminology

In addition to the terminology above, this specification also uses terminology
from the [[INFRA]] specification to formally define the data model. When
[[INFRA]] terminology is used, such as string, ordered set, and map, it is
linked directly to that specification.

## Identifier

This section describes the formal syntax for DIDs and DID URLs. The term
"generic" is used to differentiate the syntax defined here from syntax defined
by _specific_ DID methods in their respective specifications.

### DID Syntax

The generic DID scheme is a URI scheme conformant with [[!RFC3986]].

The DID scheme name MUST be an ASCII lowercase string.

The DID method name MUST be a string which consists of ASCII lowercase
characters and ASCII digits.

The following is the ABNF definition using the syntax in [[!RFC5234]], which
defines `ALPHA` and `DIGIT`. All other rule names not defined in this ABNF are
defined in [[RFC3986]].

    
    
    did                = "did:" method-name ":" method-specific-id
    method-name        = 1*method-char
    method-char        = %x61-7A / DIGIT
    method-specific-id = *( *idchar ":" ) 1*idchar
    idchar             = ALPHA / DIGIT / "." / "-" / "_"
          

This ABNF does not currently permit an empty `method-specific-id` string. Some
DID methods have expressed an interest in providing resolution of an DID with
an empty `method-specific-id` string, for example to enable discovery of a DID
document describing a verifiable data registry by resolving the DID method
name alone. The Working Group is requesting feedback during the Candidate
Recommendation stage on whether or not an empty `method-specific-id` string is
of interest to implementers. This feature may change as a result of that
feedback.

For requirements on DID methods relating to the DID syntax, see Section .

### DID URL Syntax

A DID URL always identifies a resource to be located. It can be used, for
example, to identify a specific part of a DID document.

This following is the ABNF definition using the syntax in [[!RFC5234]]. It
builds on the `did` scheme defined in . The `path-abempty`, `query`, and
`fragment` components are identical to the ABNF rules defined in [[!RFC3986]].

    
    
    did-url = did path-abempty [ "?" query ] [ "#" fragment ]
          

This specification reserves the semicolon (`;`) character for possible future
use as a sub-delimiter for parameters as described in [[?MATRIX-URIS]].

## DID Parameters

The DID URL syntax supports a simple format for parameters based on the
`query` component (See ). Adding a DID parameter to a DID URL means that the
parameter becomes part of the identifier for a resource.

Some DID parameters are completely independent of of any specific DID method,
and function the same way for all DIDs. Other DID parameters are not
necessarily supported by all DID methods. Where optional parameters are
supported, they are expected to operate uniformly across the DID methods that
do support them. Requirements which enable this are detailed in the following
table.

Parameter Name  |  Description  
---|---  
`service` |  Identifies a service from the DID document by service ID. Support
for this parameter is REQUIRED. The associated value MUST be an ASCII string.  
`relativeRef` |  A relative URI reference according to RFC3986 Section 4.2
that identifies a resource at a service endpoint, which is selected from a DID
document by using the `service` parameter. Support for this parameter is
REQUIRED. The associated value MUST be an ASCII string and MUST use percent-
encoding for certain characters as specified in RFC3986 Section 2.1.  
`versionId` |  Identifies a specific version of a DID document to be resolved
(the version ID could be sequential, or a UUID, or method-specific). Support
for this parameter is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an
ASCII string.  
`versionTime` |  Identifies a certain version timestamp of a DID document to
be resolved. That is, the DID document that was valid for a DID at a certain
time. Support for this parameter is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value
MUST be an ASCII string which is a valid XML datetime value, as defined in
section 3.3.7 of [W3C XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 2:
Datatypes](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema11-2/) [[XMLSCHEMA11-2]]. This
datetime value MUST be normalized to UTC 00:00, as indicated by the trailing
"Z".  
`hl` |  A resource hash of the DID document to add integrity protection, as
specified in [[?HASHLINK]]. This parameter is non-normative. Support for this
parameter is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ASCII
string.  
  
Implementers as well as DID method specification authors might use additional
DID parameters that are not listed here. For maximum interoperability, it is
RECOMMENDED that DID parameters use the official W3C DID Specification
Registries mechanism [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]], to avoid collision with other
uses of the same DID parameter with different semantics.

DID parameters might be used if there is a clear use case where the parameter
needs to be part of a URI that can be used as a link, or as a resource in RDF
/ JSON-LD documents.

It is expected that DID parameters will _not_ be used if the same
functionality can be expressed by passing input metadata to a DID resolver.

Additional considerations for processing these parameters are discussed in
[[?DID-RESOLUTION]].

Some example DID URLs using DID parameters are shown below.

    
    
    did:foo:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp?service=agent
            
    
    
    did:foo:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp?versionTime=2002-10-10T17:00:00Z
            

The DID resolution and the DID URL dereferencing functions can be influenced
by passing input metadata to a DID resolver that are not part of the DID URL.
(See ). This is comparable to HTTP, where certain parameters could either be
included in an HTTP URL, or alternatively passed as HTTP headers during the
dereferencing process. The important distinction is that DID parameters that
are part of the DID URL should be used to specify _whatresource is being
identified_, whereas input metadata that is not part of the DID URL should be
use to control _how thatresource is resolved or dereferenced_.

## Path

A DID path is identical to a generic URI path and MUST conform to the `path-
abempty` ABNF rule in [[!RFC3986]].

A DID method specification MAY specify ABNF rules for DID paths that are more
restrictive than the generic rules in this section.

    
    
    did:example:123456/path
            

## Query

A DID query is derived from a generic URI query and MUST conform to the `did-
query` ABNF rule in Section  . If a DID query is present, it MUST be used as
described in Section .

A DID method specification MAY specify ABNF rules for DID queries that are
more restrictive than the generic rules in this section.

    
    
    did:example:123456?query=true
            

## Fragment

A DID fragment is used as method-independent reference into a DID document or
external resource.

DID fragment syntax and semantics are identical to a generic URI fragment and
MUST conform to RFC 3986, section 3.5.

For information about how to dereference a DID fragment, see .

A DID method specification MAY specify ABNF rules for DID fragments that are
more restrictive than the generic rules in this section.

In order to maximize interoperability, implementers are urged to ensure that
DID fragments are interpreted in the same way across representations (as
described in Section ). For example, while JSON Pointer [[?RFC6901]] can be
used in a DID fragment, it will not be interpreted in the same way across
representations.

For example:

  * A unique verification method in a DID Document
    
        did:example:123#public-key-0

  * A unique service in a DID Document
    
        did:example:123#agent

  * A resource external to a DID Document
    
        did:example:123?service=agent&relativeRef;=/credentials#degree

Additional semantics for fragment identifiers, which are compatible with and
layered upon the semantics in this section, are described for JSON-LD
representations in Section .

## Relative DID URLs

A relative DID URL is any URL value in a DID document that does not start with
`did:<method-name>:<method-specific-id>`. More specifically, it is any URL
value that does not start with the ABNF defined in Section . The contents of
the URL typically refers to a resource in the same DID document. Relative DID
URLs MAY contain relative path components, query parameters, and fragment
identifiers.

When resolving a relative DID URL reference, the algorithm specified in
RFC3986 Section 5: Reference Resolution MUST be used. The **base URI** value
is the DID that is associated with the DID subject, see Section . The
**scheme** is `did`. The **authority** is a combination of `<method-
name>:<method-specific-id>`, and the **path** , **query** , and **fragment**
values are those defined in Section , Section , and Section , respectively.

Relative DID URLs are often used to identify verification methods and services
in a DID Document without having to use absolute URLs, which tend to be more
verbose than necessary.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      "verificationMethod": [{
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#key-1",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
      }, ...],
      "authentication": [
        // a relative DID URL used to reference a verification method above
        "#key-1"
      ]
    }
            

In the example above, the relative DID URL value will be transformed to an
absolute DID URL value of `did:example:123456789abcdefghi#key-1`.

# Data Model

This specification defines a data model for DID documents that is capable of
being serialized into multiple concrete representations. This section provides
a high-level description of the data model, how different types of properties
are expressed in the data model, and instructions for extending the data
model.

A DID document consists of a map of entries, where each entry consists of an
entry key/entry value pair. The data model contains at least two different
classes of entries. The first class of entries are called properties, and are
specified in section . The second class are representation-specific entries,
and are specified in section .

![

Diagram illustrating the entries in the DID document, including properties

and representation-specific entries; some entries are defined by this

specifications; others are defined by registered or unregistered
extensions.](diagrams/diagram-did-document-entries.png) The entries in a DID
document.

All entry keys in the data model are strings. All entry values are expressed
using one of the abstract data types in the table below while each
representation specifies the concrete serialization format of each data type.

Data Type  |  Considerations  
---|---  
ordered map |  A finite ordered sequence of key/value pairs, with no key
appearing twice as specified in [[INFRA]].  
list |  A finite ordered sequence of items as specified in [[INFRA]].  
ordered set |  A finite ordered sequence of items that does not contain the
same item twice as specified in [[INFRA]].  
datetime |  A date and time value that is capable of losslessly expressing all
values expressible by a `dateTime` as specified in [XMLSCHEMA11-2].  
string |  A sequence of code units often used to represent human readable
language as specified in [[INFRA]].  
integer |  A real number without a fractional component as specified in
[XMLSCHEMA11-2]. To maximize interoperability, implementers are urged to heed
the advice regarding integers in RFC7159, Section 6: Numbers.  
double |  A value that is often used to approximate arbitrary real numbers as
specified in [XMLSCHEMA11-2]. To maximize interoperability, implementers are
urged to heed the advice regarding doubles in RFC7159, Section 6: Numbers.  
boolean |  A value that is either true or false as defined in [[INFRA]].  
null |  A value that is used to indicate the lack of a value as defined in
[[INFRA]].  
  
## Extensibility

The data model supports two types of extensibility.

  1. For maximum interoperability, it is RECOMMENDED that extensions use the official W3C DID Specification Registries mechanism [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. The use of this mechanism for new properties or other extensions is the only specified method that ensures that two different representations will be able to work together. 
  2. Representations MAY define other extensibility mechanisms, including ones that do not require the use of the DID Specification Registries. Such extension mechanisms SHOULD support lossless conversion into any other conformant representation. Extension mechanisms for a representation SHOULD define a mapping of all properties and representation syntax into the data model and its type system. 

It is always possible for two specific implementations to agree out-of-band to
use a mutually understood extension or representation that is not recorded in
the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]; interoperability
between such implementations and the larger ecosystem will be less reliable.

# Core Properties

A DID points to a DID document. DID documents are the serialization of the
data model. The following sections define the properties in a DID document,
including whether these properties are required or optional. These properties
describe relationships between the DID subject and the value of the property.

This specification defines three classes of core properties:

  1. properties defined for a DID Document, the topmost map in the data model; 
  2. properties defined for a Verification Method, a concept represented by a map in the data model, and specified in Section ; 
  3. properties defined for a Service, a concept represented by a map in the data model, and specified in Section . 

The core properties are summarized informatively in Section , and described in
detail and specified normatively in subsequent sections.

As a result of the data model being defined using terminology from [[INFRA]],
property values which can contain more than one item, such as maps and sets,
are explicitly ordered. For the purposes of this specification, unless
otherwise stated, ordering is not important and implementations are not
expected to produce or consume deterministically ordered values.

## Summary

This section contains an informative reference for the core properties defined
by this specification, with expected values and whether or not they are
required. The property names in the tables are linked to the normative
definitions and more detailed descriptions of each property.

The property names `id`, `type`, and `controller` can be present in different
classes with possible differences in constraints.

### DID Document properties

Property | Required? | Value constraints  
---|---|---  
`id` | yes |  A string that conforms to the rules in Section .  
`alsoKnownAs` | no |  An ordered set of strings that conform to the rules of
[[RFC3986]] for URIs.  
`controller` | no |  A string or an ordered set of strings that conform to the
rules in Section .  
`verificationMethod` | no |  An ordered set of Verification Method maps (see
Section ).  
`authentication` | no |  An ordered set of either Verification Method maps
(see Section ) or strings that conform to the rules in Section .  
`assertionMethod` | no  
`keyAgreement` | no  
`capabilityInvocation` | no  
`capabilityDelegation` | no  
`service` | no |  An ordered set of Service Endpoint maps (see Section ).  
  
### Verification Method properties

Property | Required? | Value constraints  
---|---|---  
`id` | yes |  A string that conforms to the rules in Section .  
`controller` | yes |  A string or an ordered set of strings that conform to
the rules in Section .  
`type` | yes |  A string.  
`publicKeyJwk` | no |  A map representing a JSON Web Key that conforms to
[[RFC7517]]. See definition of publicKeyJwk for additional constraints.  
`publicKeyBase58` | no |  A string that conforms to a base58btc encoded public
key.  
  
### Service properties

Property | Required? | Value constraints  
---|---|---  
`id` | yes |  A string that conforms to the rules of [[RFC3986]] for URIs.  
`type` | yes |  A string or an ordered set of strings.  
`serviceEndpoint` | yes |  A string that conforms to the rules of [[RFC3986]]
for URIs, a map, or an ordered set composed of a one or more strings that
conform to the rules of [[RFC3986]] for URIs and/or maps.  
  
## DID Subject

The DID subject is the entity that the DID document is about. That is, it is
the entity identified by the DID and described by the DID document.

###  Identifier

The DID for a particular DID subject is denoted with the `id` property in the
DID document.

DID documents MUST include the `id` property in the the topmost map in the
data model.

id

     The value of `id` MUST be a string that conforms to the rules in Section . 
    
    
    {
    "id": "did:example:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp"
    }
            

The `id` property only denotes the DID of the DID subject when it is present
in the _topmost_ map of the DID document.

DID method specifications can create intermediate representations of a DID
document that do not contain the `id` property, such as when a DID resolver is
performing DID resolution. However, the fully resolved DID document always
contains a valid `id` property. The value of `id` in the resolved DID document
MUST match the DID that was resolved.

### Also Known As

This property is at risk of being removed from DID Core in favour of putting
it in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]] pending
feedback from implementers and reviewers.

A DID subject can have multiple identifiers for different purposes, or at
different times. The assertion that two or more DIDs (or other types of URI)
identify the same DID subject can be made using the `alsoKnownAs` property.

alsoKnownAs

     The `alsoKnownAs` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the value MUST be an ordered set where each item in the set is a URI conforming to [[RFC3986]]. 
     This relationship is a statement that the subject of this identifier is also identified by one or more other identifiers. 

Applications might choose to consider two identifiers related by `alsoKnownAs`
to be equivalent _if_ the `alsoKnownAs` relationship is reciprocated in the
reverse direction. It is best practice _not_ to consider them equivalent in
the absence of this inverse relationship. In other words, the presence of an
`alsoKnownAs` assertion does not prove that this assertion is true. Therefore
it is strongly advised that a requesting party obtain independent verification
of an `alsoKnownAs` assertion.

Given that the DID subject might use different identifiers for different
purposes, an expectation of strong equivalence between the two identifiers, or
merging the graphs of the two corresponding DID documents, is not necessarily
appropriate, _even with_ a reciprocal relationship.

## DID Controller

A DID controller is an entity that is authorized to make changes to a DID
document. The process of authorizing a DID controller is defined by the DID
Method.

controller

     The `controller` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the value MUST be a string or an ordered set of strings that conform to the rules in Section . The corresponding DID document(s) SHOULD contain verification relationships that explicitly permit the use of certain verification methods for specific purposes. 

When a `controller` property is present in a DID Document, its value expresses
one or more DIDs. Any verification methods contained in the DID Documents for
those DIDs SHOULD be accepted as authoritative, such that proofs that satisfy
those verification methods are to be considered equivalent to proofs provided
by the DID Subject.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      "controller": "did:example:bcehfew7h32f32h7af3",
      "service": [{
        // used to retrieve Verifiable Credentials associated with the DID
        "type": "VerifiableCredentialService",// external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com/vc/"
      }]
    }
          

Note that authorization provided by the value of `controller` is separate from
authentication (see Section ). This is particularly important for key recovery
in the case of cryptographic key loss, when the subject no longer has access
to their keys, or key compromise, where the DID controller's trusted third
parties need to override malicious activity by an attacker. See Section .

## Verification Methods

A DID document can express verification methods, such as cryptographic keys,
which can be used to authenticate1 or authorize interactions with the DID
subject or associated parties. The information expressed often includes
globally unambiguous identifiers and public key material, which can be used to
verify digital signatures. For example, a public key can be used as a
verification method with respect to a digital signature; in such usage, it
verifies that the signer possessed the associated private key.

Verification methods might take many parameters. An example of this is a set
of five cryptographic keys from which any three are required to contribute to
a threshold signature. Methods need not be cryptographic.

In order to maximize interoperability, support for public keys as verification
methods is restricted: see . For other types of verification method, the
verification method SHOULD be registered in the DID Specification Registries
[[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

verificationMethod

    

The `verificationMethod` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the value MUST be
an ordered set of verification methods, where each verification method is
described by a map. The verification method map MUST include the `id`, `type`,
`controller`, and specific verification method properties as determined by the
value of `type`, and MAY include additional properties.

The value of the `id` property for a verification method MUST be a string that
conforms to the rules in Section . When more than one verification method is
present, the value of `verificationMethod` MUST NOT contain multiple entries
with the same `id`. If the value of `verificationMethod` contains multiple
entries with the same `id`, a DID document processor MUST produce an error.

In the case where a verification method is a public key, the value of the `id`
property might be structured as a [compound
key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compound_key). This is especially useful
for integrating with existing key management systems and key formats such as
JWK [[RFC7517]]. It is RECOMMENDED that JWK `kid` values are set to the public
key fingerprint [[RFC7638]]. It is RECOMMENDED that verification methods that
use JWKs to represent their public keys utilize the value of `kid` as their
fragment identifier. See the first key in  for an example of a public key with
a compound key identifier.

The value of the `type` property MUST be exactly one verification method type.
In order to maximize global interoperability, the verification method type
SHOULD be registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-
REGISTRIES]].

The value of the `controller` property MUST be a string that conforms to the
rules in Section .

The value of the `type` property MUST be exactly one verification method type
expressed as a string. In order to maximize interoperability, the verification
method type SHOULD be registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-
SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

A verification method MUST contain a property to express verification
material. The property used is determined by the value of the `type` property.
Examples of such properties are `publicKeyJwk` or `publicKeyBase58`; others
can be found in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

A verification method MUST NOT contain multiple verification material
properties for the same material. For example, expressing key material in a
verification method using both `publicKeyJwk` and `publicKeyBase58` at the
same time is prohibited.

publicKeyJwk

     The `publicKeyJwk` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the value MUST be a map representing a JSON Web Key that conforms to [[RFC7517]]. The map MUST NOT contain "d", or any other members of the private information class as described in [Registration Template](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517#section-8.1.1). 
publicKeyBase58

     The `publicKeyBase58` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the value MUST be a string representation of a base58btc encoded public key. 

In the case where a verification method is a public key, the value of the `id`
property might contain a fragment. This is especially useful for integrating
with existing key management systems and key formats such as JWK [[RFC7517]].
It is RECOMMENDED that verification methods that use JWKs to represent their
public keys use the value of `kid` as their fragment identifier. It is
RECOMMENDED that JWK `kid` values are set to the public key fingerprint
[[RFC7638]]. See the first key in  for an example of a public key with a
compound key identifier.

    
    
    {
      "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1", "https://w3id.org/security/v1"],
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "verificationMethod": [{
        "id": ...,
        "type": ...,
        "controller": ...,
        "publicKeyJwk": ...
      }, {
        "id": ...,
        "type": ...,
        "controller": ...,
        "publicKeyBase58": ...
      }]
    }
          

The semantics of the `controller` property are the same when the subject of
the relationship is the DID document as when the subject of the relationship
is a verification method, such as a public key. Since a key (for example)
can't control itself, and the key controller cannot be inferred from the DID
document, it is necessary to explicitly express the identity of the controller
of the key. The difference is that the value of `controller` for a
verification method is _not_ necessarily a DID controller. DID controller(s)
are expressed using the `controller` property at the highest level of the DID
document (the topmost map in the data model); see .

### Verification Methods by reference

As well as the `verificationMethod` property, verification methods can be
embedded in or referenced from properties associated with various verification
relationships (see ). Referencing verification methods allows them to be used
with more than one verification relationship.

If the value of a verification method property is a map, the verification
method has been embedded and its properties can be accessed directly. However,
if the value is a URL string, the verification method has been included by
reference and its properties will need to be retrieved from elsewhere in the
DID document or from another DID document. This is done by dereferencing the
URL and searching the resulting resource for a verification method map with an
`id` property whose value matches the URL.

    
    
    {
    ...
    
      "authentication": [
        // this key is referenced, it may be used with more than one verification relationship
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this key is embedded and may *only* be used for authentication
        {
          "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
          "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
          "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
        }
      ],
    
    ...
    }
            

### Verification Method types

A public key can be used as a verification method.

This specification strives to limit the number of formats for expressing
public key material in a DID document to the fewest possible, to increase the
likelihood of interoperability. The fewer formats that implementers have to
implement, the more likely it will be that they will support all of them. This
approach attempts to strike a delicate balance between ease of implementation
and supporting formats that have historically had broad deployment.

A suite definition is responsible for specifying the verification method
`type` and proof `type`. For example, see [JSON Web Signature
2020](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/lds-jws2020/) and [Ed25519 Signature
2018](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/lds-ed25519-2018/). For all registered and
supported verification method types available for DIDs, please see the DID
Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

The DID document does not express revoked keys using a verification
relationship.

If a referenced verification method is not in the DID Document used to
dereference it, then that verification method is considered invalid or
revoked.

Each DID method specification is expected to detail how revocation is
performed and tracked.

    
    
    {
      "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1", "https://w3id.org/security/v1"],
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "verificationMethod": [{
        "id": "did:example:123#_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A",
        "type": "JsonWebKey2020", // external (property value)
        "controller": "did:example:123",
        "publicKeyJwk": {
          "crv": "Ed25519", // external (property name)
          "x": "VCpo2LMLhn6iWku8MKvSLg2ZAoC-nlOyPVQaO3FxVeQ", // external (property name)
          "kty": "OKP", // external (property name)
          "kid": "_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A" // external (property name)
        }
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
        "controller": "did:example:pqrstuvwxyz0987654321",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
      }],
      ...
    }
            

## Verification Relationships

A verification relationship expresses the relationship between the DID subject
and a verification method.

Different verification relationships enable the associated verification
methods to be used for different purposes. It is up to a _verifier_ to
ascertain the validity of a verification attempt by checking that the
verification method used is contained in the appropriate verification
relationship property of the DID Document.

The verification relationship between the DID subject and the verification
method is explicit in the DID document. Verification methods that are not
associated with a particular verification relationship cannot be used for that
verification relationship. For example, a verification method in the value of
the `authentication` property cannot be used to engage in key agreement
protocols with the DID subject--the value of the `keyAgreement` property needs
to be used for that.

This specification defines several verification relationships below. A DID
document MAY include any of these, or other properties, to express a specific
verification relationship. In order to maximize global interoperability, any
such properties used SHOULD be registered in the DID Specification Registries
[[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

## Authentication

The `authentication` verification relationship is used to specify how the DID
subject is expected to be authenticated, such as for the purposes of logging
into a website.

authentication

     The `authentication` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 
    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "authentication": [
        // this method can be used to authenticate as did:...fghi
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this method is *only* approved for authentication, it may not
        // be used for any other proof purpose, so its full description is
        // embedded here rather than using only a reference
        {
          "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
          "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018",
          "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
          "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
        }
      ],
      ...
    }
            

If authentication is established, it is up to the DID method or other
application to decide what to do with that information. A particular DID
method could decide that authenticating as a DID controller is sufficient to,
for example, update or delete the DID document. Another DID method could
require different keys, or a different verification method entirely, to be
presented in order to update or delete the DID document than that used to
authenticate. In other words, what is done _after_ the authentication check is
out of scope for the data model, but DID methods and applications are expected
to define this themselves.

This is useful to any _authentication verifier_ that needs to check to see if
an entity that is attempting to authenticate is, in fact, presenting a valid
proof of authentication. When a _verifier_ receives some data (in some
protocol-specific format) that contains a proof that was made for the purpose
of "authentication", and that says that an entity is identified by the DID,
then that _verifier_ checks to ensure that the proof can be verified using a
verification method (e.g., public key) listed under `authentication` in the
DID Document.

Note that the verification method indicated by the `authentication` property
of a DID document can only be used to authenticate the DID subject. To
authenticate a different DID controller, the entity associated with the value
of `controller` (see Section ) needs to authenticate with its _own_ DID
document and attached `authentication` verification relationship.

## Assertion

The `assertionMethod` verification relationship is used to specify how the DID
subject is expected to express claims, such as for the purposes of issuing a
Verifiable Credential [[?VC-DATA-MODEL]].

assertionMethod

     The `assertionMethod` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 

An example of when this property is useful is during the processing of a
verifiable credential by a verifier. During validation, a verifier checks to
see if a verifiable credential has been signed by the DID Subject by checking
that the verification method used to assert the proof is associated with the
`assertionMethod` property in the corresponding DID Document.

    
    
    {
    "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
    "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
    ...
    "assertionMethod": [
      // this method can be used to assert statements as did:...fghi
      "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
      // this method is *only* approved for assertion of statements, it may not
      // be used for any other verification relationship, so its full description is
      // embedded here rather than using only a reference
      {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
      }
    ],
    ...
    }
            

## Key Agreement

The `keyAgreement` verification relationship is used to specify how to encrypt
information to the DID subject, such as for the purposes of establishing a
secure communication channel with the recipient.

keyAgreement

     The `keyAgreement` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 

An example of when this property is useful is when encrypting a message
intended for the DID Subject. In this case, the counterparty uses the public
cryptographic key information in the verification method to wrap a decryption
key for the recipient.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "keyAgreement": [
        // this method can be used to perform key agreement as did:...fghi
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this method is *only* approved for key agreement usage, it may not
        // be used for any other verification relationship, so its full description is
        // embedded here rather than using only a reference
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#zC9ByQ8aJs8vrNXyDhPHHNNMSHPcaSgNpjjsBYpMMjsTdS",
          "type": "X25519KeyAgreementKey2019", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyBase58": "9hFgmPVfmBZwRvFEyniQDBkz9LmV7gDEqytWyGZLmDXE"
        }
      ],
      ...
    }
            

## Capability Invocation

The `capabilityInvocation` verification relationship is used to specify a
verification method that might be used by the DID subject to invoke a
cryptographic capability, such as the authorization to update the DID Document
or the authorization to access an HTTP API.

capabilityInvocation

     The `capabilityInvocation` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 

An example of when this property is useful is when a DID subject chooses to
invoke their capability to start a vehicle through the combined usage of a
verification method and the `StartCar` capability. In this example, the
vehicle would be the _verifier_ and would need to verify that the verification
method exists in the `capabilityInvocation` property.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1", "id":
      "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "capabilityInvocation": [
        // this method can be used to invoke capabilities as did:...fghi
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this method is *only* approved for capability invocation usage, it may not
        // be used for any other verification relationship, so its full description is
        // embedded here rather than using only a reference
        {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
        }
      ],
      ...
    }
            

## Capability Delegation

The `capabilityDelegation` verification relationship is used to specify a
mechanism that might be used by the DID subject to delegate a cryptographic
capability to another party, such as delegating the authority to access a
specific HTTP API to a subordinate.

capabilityDelegation

     The `capabilityDelegation` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification method MAY be embedded or referenced. 

An example of when this property is useful is when a DID Subject chooses to
grant their capability to start a vehicle through the combined usage of a
verification method and the `StartCar` capability to a party other than
themselves.

    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1", "id":
      "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
      ...
      "capabilityDelegation": [
        // this method can be used to perform capability delegation as did:...fghi
        "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
        // this method is *only* approved for granting capabilities it may not
        // be used for any other verification relationship, so its full description is
        // embedded here rather than using only a reference
        {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-2",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
        "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
        "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
        }
      ],
      ...
    }
            

## Services

Services are used in DID documents to express ways of communicating with the
DID subject or associated entities. A service can be any type of service the
DID subject wants to advertise, including decentralized identity management
services for further discovery, authentication, authorization, or interaction.

Revealing public information through services (such as social media accounts,
personal websites, and email addresses) is discouraged. See Section  and  for
additional details. The information associated with services are often
service-specific. For example, the information associated with an encrypted
messaging service can express how to initiate the encrypted link before
messaging begins.

Pointers to services are expressed using the `service` property. Each service
has its own `id` and `type` properties, as well as a `serviceEndpoint`
property with a URI or a set of other properties describing the service.

service

    

The `service` property is OPTIONAL. If present, the associated value MUST be
an ordered set of services, where each service is described by a map. Each
service map MUST have `id`, `type`, and `serviceEndpoint` properties, and MAY
include additional properties.

The value of the `id` property MUST be a URI conforming to [[RFC3986]]. The
value of `service` MUST NOT contain multiple entries with the same `id`. In
this case, a DID document processor MUST produce an error.

The value of the `type` property MUST be a string or an ordered set of
strings.

serviceEndpoint

    

The value of the `serviceEndpoint` property MUST be a string, a map, or an
ordered set composed of a one or more strings and/or maps. All string values
MUST be valid URIs conforming to [[RFC3986]] and normalized according to the
rules in section 6 of [[RFC3986]] and to any normalization rules in its
applicable URI scheme specification. Extension specifications for services MAY
further restrict the properties associated with the extension.

It is expected that the service protocol is published in an open standard
specification.

For more information about security considerations regarding authentication
services see Sections  and .

    
    
    {
      "service": [{
        "id":"did:example:123#linked-domain",
        "type": "LinkedDomains", // external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://bar.example.com"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#openid",
        "type": "OpenIdConnectVersion1.0Service", // external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://openid.example.com/"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#vcr",
        "type": "CredentialRepositoryService", // external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://repository.example.com/service/8377464"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#xdi",
        "type": "XdiService", // external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://xdi.example.com/8377464"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#agent",
        "type": "AgentService", // external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://agent.example.com/8377464"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#messages",
        "type": "MessagingService", // external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com/messages/8377464"
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#inbox",
        "type": "SocialWebInboxService", // external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "https://social.example.com/83hfh37dj",
        "description": "My public social inbox", // external (property name)
        "spamCost": { // external (property name)
          "amount": "0.50", // external (property name)
          "currency": "USD" // external (property name)
        }
      }, {
        "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#authpush",
        "type": "DidAuthPushModeVersion1", // external (property value)
        "serviceEndpoint": "http://auth.example.com/did:example:123456789abcdefg"
      }]
    }
          

# Representations

All concrete representations of a DID document are serialized using a
deterministic mapping that is able to be unambiguously parsed into the data
model defined in this specification. All serialization methods MUST define
rules for the bidirectional translation of a DID document both into and out of
the representation in question. An implementation MUST NOT convert between
representations without first parsing to a data model (described in Sections
and ); translation between any two representations is done by parsing the
source representation into the data model and then serializing the data model
into the target representation.

Although syntactic mappings are provided for JSON, JSON-LD, and CBOR here,
applications and services MAY use any other data representation syntax that is
capable of expressing the data model, such as XML or YAML.

Producers MUST indicate which representation of a document has been used via a
media type in the document's metadata. Consumers MUST determine the
representation of a DID document via the `contentType` DID resolver metadata
field (see ), _not_ through the content of the DID document alone.

Unrecognized entries in the data model MUST be preserved. An unrecognized
entry is any entry that does not have explicit processing rules known to the
consumer or producer. Consumers MUST add all entries that do not have explicit
processing rules for the representation being consumed to the data model using
only the representation's generic type processing rules. Producers MUST
serialize all entries in the data model that do not have explicit processing
rules for the representation being produced using only the representation's
generic type processing rules.

Note that entries that contain representation-specific syntax will only have
special processing rules defined by a single representation. Consumers of a
different representation are required to include these entries in the data
model using only their generic type processing rules to enable lossless
conversion of representations. Similarly, producers are required to treat
entries containing representation-specific syntax using generic type
processing rules when producing a representation for which the entry is not
defined. Representations are required to define producer behavior for any such
entries defined by the representation.

It is RECOMMENDED that representations use the lexical representation of
registered data types. For example, JSON and JSON-LD use the XML Schema
dateTime lexical representation to represent datetimes. A representation MAY
choose to represent the data types differently. For example, some CBOR-based
representations express datetime values using integers to represent the number
of seconds since the Unix epoch.

The production and consumption rules in this section apply to all
implementations seeking to be fully compatible with independent
implementations of the specification. Deployments of this specification MAY
use a custom agreed-upon representation, including rules agreed to by a pair
of producers and consumers for handling properties not listed in the registry.
See Section  for more information.

## Representation Requirements

The data model provided in this specification supports being serialized into a
variety of existing representations. Some applications might require the
creation of a new representation. All representations require the following:

  1. A representation MUST define an unambiguous encoding and decoding for all property names and all data model data types as defined in this specification. This enables anything that can be represented in the data model to also be represented in a compliant representation. 
  2. The representation MUST be uniquely associated with an IANA-registered MIME type. 
  3. The representation MUST define fragment processing rules for its MIME type that are conformant with the fragment processing rules defined in section  of this specification. 
  4. The representation MAY define representation-specific syntax that can be stored as entries in the data model. These entries are included when consuming or producing to aid in ensuring lossless conversion. 

In order to maximize interoperability, representation specification authors
SHOULD register their representation in the DID Specification Registries
[[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

##  JSON

This section sets out the requirements for producing and consuming DID
documents that are in plain JSON (as indicated by a `contentType` of
`application/did+json` in the resolver metadata).

### Production

A DID document MUST be a single JSON object conforming to [[!RFC8259]]. All
entries of the DID document data model described in  MUST be represented by
using the entry key as the name of the member of the JSON object. The values
of entries, including all extensions, are encoded in JSON [[RFC8259]] by
mapping entry values to JSON types as follows:

Data Type  |  JSON Representation Type  
---|---  
ordered map |  JSON Object, each entry is represented as a member of the JSON
Object with the entry key as the member name and the entry value according to
its type, as defined in this section  
list |  JSON Array, each element of the list is added, in order, as a value of
the array according to its type, as defined in this section  
ordered set |  JSON Array, each element of the set is added, in order, as a
value of the array according to its type, as defined in this section  
datetime |  JSON String formatted as an XML Datetime normalized to UTC
00:00:00 and without sub-second decimal precision. For example:
`2020-12-20T19:17:47Z`.  
string |  JSON String  
integer |  JSON Number without a decimal or fractional component  
double |  JSON Number with a fractional component  
boolean |  JSON Boolean  
null |  JSON null literal  
  
Implementers producing JSON are advised to ensure that their algorithms are
aligned with the JSON serialization rules in the [[INFRA]] specification.

All entries of the DID document MUST be included in the root object. Entries
MAY define additional data sub structures subject to the value representation
rules in the list above.

### Consumption

The topmost element MUST be a JSON object. Any other data type at the topmost
level is an error and MUST be rejected. The topmost JSON object represents the
DID document, and all members of this object are entries of the DID document.
The object member name is the entry key, and the member value is interpreted
as follows:

JSON Representation Type  |  Data Type  
---|---  
JSON Object |  ordered map, each member of the JSON Object is added as an
entry to the ordered map with the entry key being the member name and the
value converted based on the JSON type and, if available, entry definition, as
defined here; as no order is specified by JSON Objects, no insertion order is
guaranteed  
JSON Array where data model entry value is a list or unknown  |  list, each
value of the JSON Array is added to the list in order, converted based on the
JSON type of the array value, as defined here  
JSON Array where data model entry value is an ordered set |  ordered set, each
value of the JSON Array is added to the ordered set in order, converted based
on the JSON type of the array value, as defined here  
JSON String where data model entry value is an datetime |  datetime  
JSON String, where data model entry value type is string or unknown  |  string  
JSON Number without a decimal or fractional component  |  integer  
JSON Number with a fractional component, or when entry value is a double
regardless of inclusion of fractional component  |  double  
JSON Boolean |  boolean  
JSON null literal |  null  
  
Implementers consuming JSON are advised to ensure that their algorithms are
aligned with the JSON consumption rules in the [[INFRA]] specification.

Note that the `@context` object member, if present, will not have additional
processing applied to its value, which will be added verbatim to the data
model.

##  JSON-LD

JSON-LD is a JSON-based format used to serialize [Linked
Data](http://www.w3.org/TR/ld-glossary/#linked-data). This section establishes
the requirements for producing and consuming DID documents that are expressed
as JSON-LD. JSON-LD DID documents are indicated by a `contentType` resolver
metadata field that is set to `application/did+ld+json`.

Use of the media type `application/did+ld+json` is pending clarification over
the registration of [ media types with multiple
suffixes](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-w3cdidwg-media-types-
with-multiple-suffixes). The alternative will be to use `application/ld+json`
with an expected profile parameter of `https://www.w3.org/ns/did/json-ld-
profile` if multiple suffixes cannot be registered by the time the rest of DID
Core is ready for W3C Proposed Recommendation.

The following application-specific modifications are made by this
specification to the JSON-LD specification [[JSON-LD11]] to ease
interoperability between JSON and JSON-LD implementations:

  * The `@id` and `@type` keywords are aliased to `id` and `type` respectively, enabling developers to use this specification as idiomatic JSON. 
  * Even though JSON-LD allows any IRI as node identifiers, DID documents are explicitly restricted to only describe DIDs. This means that the value of `id` that refers to the DID subject MUST be a valid DID and not any other kind of IRI. 
  * Data types, such as integers, dates, units of measure, and URLs, are automatically typed to provide stronger type guarantees for use cases that require them. 

### Production

The DID document MUST be serialized according to the production rules for
JSON, with one additional requirement: The DID document MUST include the
`@context` entry.

@context

    

The [JSON-LD specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#the-context)
defines values that are valid for this entry. This entry contains
representation-specific syntax and therefore could be present in the data
model to aid in lossless conversion. If the entry is present in the data
model, it MUST be used during production unless either an alternative
`@context` value is explicitly provided to the producer or if the value from
the data model is not valid according to the consumption rules.

The value of `@context` MUST be exactly one of these values.

  * The [INFRA string](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#strings) `https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1`. 
    
        {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      ...
    }
                    

  * An INFRA ordered set, with first item the [INFRA string](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#strings) `https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1`, and subsequent items of type [INFRA string](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#strings) or [INFRA map](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#maps). 
    
        {
      "@context": [
        "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
        "https://example.com/blockchain-identity/v1"
      ],
      ...
    }
                    

All members of the `@context` property SHOULD exist in the DID Specification
Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]] in order to achieve interoperability
across different representations. If a member does not exist in the DID
Specification Registries, then the DID document might not be interoperable
across representations.

It is RECOMMENDED that dereferencing each URI value of the `@context` entry
results in a document containing machine-readable information about the
context. Note that further expectations of additional JSON-LD contexts are
described as part of the DID Specification Registries registration process.

Producers SHOULD NOT produce DID documents that contain properties not defined
via the `@context`. Properties that are not defined via the `@context` MAY be
dropped by Consumers.

### Consumption

The DID document MUST be deserialized as a JSON document according to the
consumption rules for JSON, with one additional requirement: The DID document
MUST include the `@context` entry and be processed according to the rules
below.

@context

    

The value of the `@context` entry conforms to the JSON-LD Production Rules. If
more than one URI is provided, the URIs MUST be interpreted as an ordered set.

Consumers SHOULD drop all properties from a DID document that are not defined
via the `@context`.

## CBOR

Like Javascript Object Notation (JSON) [[RFC8259]], Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) [[RFC7049]] defines a set of formatting rules for the
portable representation of structured data. CBOR is a more concise, machine-
readable, language-independent data interchange format that is self-describing
and has built-in semantics for interoperability.

The following sections outline the rules for producing and consuming DID
documents that are expressed in CBOR as indicated by a `contentType` of
`application/did+cbor` in the resolver metadata.

### Production

A DID document MUST be a single CBOR Map conforming to [[RFC7049]]. All
topmost entries of the DID document MUST be represented by using the entry key
as the name of the key of the CBOR Map. The values of entries of the data
model described in Section , including all extensions, are encoded in CBOR
[[RFC7049]] by mapping entry values to CBOR types as follows:

Data Type  |  CBOR Representation Type  
---|---  
ordered map |  CBOR map (major type 5), each entry is represented as a member
of the CBOR Map with the entry key as the key and the entry value according to
its type, as defined in this section  
list |  CBOR array (major type 4), each element of the list is added, in
order, as a value of the array according to its type, as defined in this
section  
ordered set |  CBOR array (major type 4), each element of the list is added,
in order, as a value of the array according to its type, as defined in this
section  
datetime |  CBOR string (major type 5) formatted as an XML Datetime normalized
to UTC 00:00 and without sub-second decimal precision. For example:
`2020-12-20T19:17:47Z`.  
string |  CBOR string (major type 5)  
integer |  CBOR integer (major type 0 or 1), choosing the shortest byte
representation  
double |  CBOR floating-point number (major type 7). All floating point values
MUST be encoded as 64-bits (additional type value 27), even for integral
values.  
boolean |  CBOR simple value (major type 7, subtype 24) with a simple value of
21 (True) or 20 (False)  
null |  CBOR simple value (major type 7, subtype 24) with a simple value of 22
(Null)  
  
  * Other Data Types not otherewise defined in the data model MUST be represented as a [CBOR String type. (major type 5)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7049#section-2.1)
  * Indefinite-length items are not allowed and MUST be made [CBOR definite length.](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7049#section-2.2.1)

To produce a deterministic canonical CBOR representation of a DID document and
faciliate maximal lossless compatiblity with other core representations via
the Abstract Data Model the following constraints of a CBOR representation of
a DID Document model MUST be followed:

  * Entry keys MUST be represented as text string (major type 3) and contain only UTF-8 strings.
  * Undefined Values of Required Properties as defined in the Data Model that are absent from the CBOR representation SHOULD be labeled with Primitive type (major type 7) with value 23 (Undefined value).
  * Entry keys in each CBOR map MUST be unique.
  * Integer encoding MUST be as short as possible.
  * The expression of lengths in CBOR major types 2 through 5 MUST be as short as possible.
  * The keys in every map must be sorted lowest value to highest. Sorting is performed on the bytes of the representation of the keys. If two keys have different lengths, the shorter one sorts earlier. If two keys have the same length, the one with the lower value in (byte-wise) lexical order sorts earlier.

All entries of the DID document represented in CBOR MUST be included in the
root map (major type 5). Entries MAY define additional data sub structures
represented as nested CBOR maps (major type 5) and is subject to the value
representation rules in the lists above and conformance to section   4.3
Extensibility.

    
    
    A2626964781E6469643A6578616D706C653A313233343536373839616263
    6465666768696E61757468656E7469636174696F6E81A462696478256469
    643A6578616D706C653A313233343536373839616263646566676869236B
    6579732D316474797065781A45643235353139566572696669636174696F
    6E4B6579323031386A636F6E74726F6C6C6572781E6469643A6578616D70
    6C653A3132333435363738396162636465666768696F7075626C69634B65
    79426173653538782C483343324156764C4D7636676D4D4E616D33755641
    6A5A70666B634A437744776E5A6E367A3377586D715056
          
    
    
    A2                                   # map(2)
    62                                   # text(2)
       6964                              # "id"
    78 1E                                # text(30)
       6469643A6578616D706C653A313233343536373839616263646566676869 # "did:example:123456789abcdefghi"
    6E                                   # text(14)
       61757468656E7469636174696F6E      # "authentication"
    81                                   # array(1)
       A4                                # map(4)
          62                             # text(2)
             6964                        # "id"
          78 25                          # text(37)
             6469643A6578616D706C653A313233343536373839616263646566676869236B6579732D31 # "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1"
          64                             # text(4)
             74797065                    # "type"
          78 1A                          # text(26)
             45643235353139566572696669636174696F6E4B657932303138 # "Ed25519VerificationKey2018"
          6A                             # text(10)
             636F6E74726F6C6C6572        # "controller"
          78 1E                          # text(30)
             6469643A6578616D706C653A313233343536373839616263646566676869 # "did:example:123456789abcdefghi"
          6F                             # text(15)
             7075626C69634B6579426173653538 # "publicKeyBase58"
          78 2C                          # text(44)
             483343324156764C4D7636676D4D4E616D337556416A5A70666B634A437744776E5A6E367A3377586D715056 # "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
                  

### Consumption

The topmost element MUST be a CBOR map (major type 5). Any other data type at
the highest level of the DID document (the topmost map in the data model) is
an error and MUST be rejected. The topmost CBOR map represents the DID
document, and all data items of this map are entries of the DID document. The
data item key is the entry key, and the data item value is interpreted as
follows:

CBOR Representation Type  |  Data Type  
---|---  
CBOR map (major type 5)  |  ordered map, each data item of the CBOR map is
added as an entry to the ordered map with the entry key being the data item
name and the value converted based on the CBOR type and, if available, entry
definition, as defined here; as no order can be enforced for general CBOR
maps, no insertion order is guaranteed.  
CBOR array (major type 4), where the data model entry value is a list or
unknown  |  list, each value of the CBOR array is added to the list in order,
converted based on the CBOR type of the array value, as defined in this table  
CBOR array (major type 4), where the data model entry value is an ordered set
|  ordered set, each value of the CBOR array is added to the ordered set in
order, converted based on the CBOR type of the array value as defined in this
table  
CBOR string (major type 5) where the data model entry value is a datetime |
datetime  
CBOR string (major type 5), where the data model entry value type is string or
unknown  |  string  
CBOR integer (major type 0 or 1), choosing the shortest byte representation  |
integer  
CBOR floating-point number (major type 7).  |  double  
CBOR simple value (major type 7, subtype 24) with a simple value of 21 (True)
or 20 (False)  |  boolean  
CBOR simple value (major type 7, subtype 24) with a simple value of 22 (Null)
|  null  
  
Additional Considerations:

  * [CBOR Indefinite-length items](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7049#section-2.2.1) are not allowed and MUST throw an Error. 
  * Duplicate key in the same CBOR map MUST throw an Error. 
  * [Unknown Additional Properties and Values](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7049#section-3.3.3) that are not defined in data model, represented in the `@context`, or represented in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]] or be explicitly documented as an extension of the DID document conformant to   4.3 Extensibility MUST be preserved by default and represented as major type 3 (UTF-8 String) 

### CBOR Extensibility

In CBOR, one point of extensibility is with the use of CBOR tags. [[RFC7049]]
defines a basic set of data types, as well as a tagging mechanism that enables
extending the set of data types supported via the [IANA CBOR Tag
Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/cbor-tags/cbor-tags.xhtml). This
allows for tags to enhance the semantic description of the data that follows.
Extensibility with CBOR tags also facilitates lossless conversion to other
core representations. CBOR Tags number 21 to 23 indicate that a following byte
string might require a specific encoding when interoperating with a text-based
representation such as JSON. These tags are useful when an encoder knows that
the byte string data it is writing is likely to be later converted to a
particular text-based usage such as JSON. These three tag numbers suggest
conversions to three of the base data encodings defined in [[RFC4648]]. Tag
number 21 suggests conversion to base64url encoding (Section 5 of
[[RFC4648]]), where padding is not used (see Section 3.2 of [[RFC4648]]); that
is, all trailing equals signs ("=") are removed from the encoded string. Tag
number 22 suggests conversion to classical base64 encoding (Section 4 of
[[RFC4648]] ), with padding as defined in [[RFC4648]]. For both base64url and
base64, padding bits are set to zero (see Section 3.5 of [[RFC4648]] ), and
encoding is performed without the inclusion of any line breaks, whitespace, or
other additional characters. Tag number 23 suggests conversion to base16 (hex)
encoding, with uppercase alphabetics (see Section 8 of [[RFC4648]]). Note
that, for all three tag numbers, the encoding of the empty byte string is the
empty text string of other representations.

# Methods

DID methods provide the means to implement this specification on different
verifiable data registries. New DID methods are defined in their own
specifications, so that interoperability between different implementations of
the same DID method is ensured. This section specifies the requirements on any
DID method, which are met by the DID method's associated specification.

For adding properties to a DID document which are specific to a particular DID
method, see .

## Method Schemes

A DID method specification MUST define exactly one method-specific DID scheme,
identified by exactly one method name (see the `method-name` rule in Section
).

The authors of a new DID method specification are expected to use a method
name that is unique among all DID method names known to them at the time of
publication.

Because there is no central authority for allocating or approving DID method
names, there is no way to know for certain if a specific DID method name is
unique. To help with this challenge, a non-authoritative list of known DID
method names and their associated specifications is maintained in the DID
Methods Registry, which is part of the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-
SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

Authors of new DID method specifications are encouraged to add their method
names to the DID Methods Registry so that other implementors and members of
the community have a place to see an overview of existing DID methods.

The DID method specification MUST specify how to generate the `method-
specific-id` component of a DID.

Case sensitivity and normalization of the value of the `method-specific-id`
rule MUST be defined by the DID method specification.

The `method-specific-id` value MUST be able to be generated without the use of
a centralized registry service.

The `method-specific-id` value might be globally unique by itself. The
`method-specific-id` value MUST be unique within a method. Any DID generated
by the method MUST be globally unique.

If needed, a method-specific DID scheme MAY define multiple `method-specific-
id` formats.

The `method-specific-id` format MAY include colons. The use of colons MUST
comply syntactically with the `method-specific-id` ABNF rule.

The meaning of colons in the `method-specific-id` is entirely method-specific.
Colons might be used by DID methods for establishing hierarchically
partitioned namespaces, for identifying specific instances or parts of the
verifiable data registry, or for other purposes. Implementers are advised to
avoid assuming any meanings or behaviors associated with a colon that are
generically applicable to all DID methods.

## Method Operations

This section sets out the requirements for DID method specifications with
regards to operations that can be performed on a DID document.

Determining the authority of a party to carry out the operations is method-
specific. For example, a DID method might:

  * make use of the `controller` property. 
  * use the verification methods listed under `authentication` to decide whether an update/deactivate operation is allowed. 
  * use other constructs in the DID Document to decide if, for example, a verification method specified under `capabilityInvocation` could be used to verify the invocation of a capability to update the DID Document. 
  * not use the DID document at all to decide this, but have rules that are "built into" the method. 

Each DID method MUST define how authorization to perform DID method operations
is implemented, including any necessary cryptographic operations.

### Create

The DID method specification MUST specify how a DID controller creates a DID
and its associated DID document on the verifiable data registry, including all
cryptographic operations necessary to establish proof of control.

### Read/Verify

The DID method specification MUST specify how a DID resolver uses a DID to
request a DID document from the verifiable data registry, including how the
DID resolver can verify the authenticity of the response.

### Update

The DID method specification MUST specify how a DID controller can update a
DID document on the verifiable data registry, including all cryptographic
operations necessary to establish proof of control, _or_ state that updates
are not possible.

An update to a DID is any change, after creation, in the data used to produce
a DID document. DID Method implementers are responsible for defining what
constitutes an update, and what properties of the DID document are supported
by a given DID method. For example, an update operation which replaces key
material without changing it could be a valid update that does not result in
changes to the DID document.

### Deactivate

The DID method specification MUST specify how a DID controller can deactivate
a DID on the verifiable data registry, including all cryptographic operations
necessary to establish proof of deactivation, _or_ state that deactivation is
not possible.

## Security Requirements

DID method specifications MUST include their own Security Considerations
sections. This section MUST consider all the requirements mentioned in section
5 of [[RFC3552]] (page 27) for the DID operations defined in the
specification.

At least the following forms of attack MUST be considered: eavesdropping,
replay, message insertion, deletion, modification, and man-in-the-middle.
Potential denial of service attacks MUST be identified as well.

This section MUST discuss, per Section 5 of [[RFC3552]], residual risks (such
as the risks from compromise in a related protocol, incorrect implementation,
or cipher) after threat mitigation was deployed.

This section MUST provide integrity protection and update authentication for
all operations required by Section .

If the technology involves authentication, particularly user-host
authentication, the security of the authentication method MUST be clearly
specified.

DID methods MUST discuss the policy mechanism by which DIDs are proven to be
uniquely assigned.

Method-specific endpoint authentication MUST be discussed. Where DID methods
make use of DLTs with varying network topology, sometimes offered as _light
node_ or _[thin client](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Thin_Client_Security)_
implementations to reduce required computing resources, the security
assumptions of the topology available to implementations of the DID method
MUST be discussed.

If the protocol incorporates cryptographic protection mechanisms, the DID
method specification MUST clearly indicate which portions of the data are
protected and what the protections are, and SHOULD give an indication to what
sorts of attacks the cryptographic protection is susceptible. For example,
integrity only, confidentiality, endpoint authentication, and so on.

Data which is to be held secret (keying material, random seeds, and so on)
SHOULD be clearly labeled.

DID method specifications SHOULD explain and specify the implementation of
signatures on DID documents, if applicable.

Where DID methods make use of peer-to-peer computing resources, such as with
all known DLTs, the expected burdens of those resources SHOULD be discussed in
relation to denial of service.

DID methods that introduce new authentication service types (see Section )
SHOULD consider the security requirements of the supported authentication
protocol.

## Privacy Requirements

DID method specifications MUST include their own Privacy Considerations
sections, if only to point to .

The DID method specification's Privacy Considerations section MUST discuss any
subsection of Section 5 of [[RFC6973]] that could apply in a method-specific
manner. The subsections to consider are: surveillance, stored data compromise,
unsolicited traffic, misattribution, correlation, identification, secondary
use, disclosure, exclusion.

# Resolution

The Working Group is unsure if there will be enough implementation experience
for the DID Resolution section. We are seeking feedback from the
implementation community as to whether they prefer to do all of this work now,
or if they would prefer that this section is, or parts of the section are,
rewritten to be non-normative, or published as a NOTE and taken up in a future
W3C DID Resolution Working Group. If there is support for rewriting a subset
of the DID Resolution section, or publishing any part of it as a NOTE during
the W3C Candidate Recommendation process, this section will be modified and/or
published as a NOTE appropriately before the DID Core specification proceeds
to the W3C Proposed Recommendation stage.

This section defines the inputs and outputs of DID resolution and DID URL
dereferencing. These functions are defined in an abstract way. Their exact
implementation is out of scope for this specification, but some considerations
for implementors are discussed in [[?DID-RESOLUTION]].

All conformant DID resolvers MUST implement the DID resolution functions for
at least one DID method and MUST be able to return a DID document in at least
one conformant representation.

## DID Resolution

The DID resolution functions resolve a DID into a DID document by using the
"Read" operation of the applicable DID method. (See .) The details of how this
process is accomplished are outside the scope of this specification, but all
conformant implementations implement two functions which have the following
abstract forms:

` resolve ( did, did-resolution-input-metadata )  
     -> ( did-resolution-metadata, did-document, did-document-metadata ) `

` resolveRepresentation ( did, did-resolution-input-metadata )  
     -> ( did-resolution-metadata, did-document-stream, did-document-metadata ) `

The `resolve` function returns the DID document in its abstract form. The
`resolveRepresentation` function returns a byte stream of the DID Document
formatted in the corresponding representation.

The input variables of these functions are as follows:

did

     This is the DID to resolve. This input is REQUIRED and the value MUST be a conformant DID as defined in . 
did-resolution-input-metadata

     A metadata structure consisting of input options to the `resolve` and `resolveRepresentation` functions in addition to the `did` itself. Properties defined by this specification are in . This input is REQUIRED, but the structure MAY be empty. 

The output variables of these functions are as follows:

did-resolution-metadata

    

A metadata structure consisting of values relating to the results of the DID
resolution process. This structure is REQUIRED and MUST NOT be empty.

This metadata typically changes between invocations of the `resolve` and
`resolveRepresentation` functions as it represents data about the resolution
process itself. Properties defined by this specification are in .

If the resolution is successful, and if the `resolveRepresentation` function
was called, this structure MUST contain a `contentType` property containing
the mime-type of the `did-document-stream` in this result. If the resolution
is not successful, this structure MUST contain an `error` property describing
the error.

did-document

     If the resolution is successful, and if the `resolve` function was called, this MUST be a conforming DID document. If the resolution is unsuccessful, this value MUST be empty. 
did-document-stream

     If the resolution is successful, and if the `resolveRepresentation` function was called, this MUST be a byte stream of the resolved DID document in one of the conformant representations. The byte stream might then be parsed by the caller of the `resolveRepresentation` function into a data model, which can in turn be validated and processed. If the resolution is unsuccessful, this value MUST be an empty stream. 
did-document-metadata

     If the resolution is successful, this MUST be a metadata structure. This structure contains metadata about the DID document contained in the `did-document` or `did-document-stream`. This metadata typically does not change between invocations of the `resolve` function unless the DID document changes, as it represents data about the DID document. If the resolution is unsuccessful, this output MUST be an empty metadata structure. Properties defined by this specification are in . 

Conforming DID resolver implementations do not alter the signature of these
functions in any way. DID resolver implementations might map the `resolve` and
`resolveRepresentation` functions to a method-specific internal function to
perform the actual DID resolution process. DID resolver implementations might
implement and expose additional functions with different signatures in
addition to the `resolve` function specified here.

### DID Resolution Input Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values are
registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This
specification defines the following common properties.

accept

     The MIME type expressed as an ASCII string of the caller's preferred representation of the DID document. The DID resolver implementation SHOULD use this value to determine the representation contained in the returned `did-document-stream` if such a representation is supported and available. This property is OPTIONAL. It is only used if the `resolveRepresentation` function is called and MUST be ignored if the `resolve` function is called. 

### DID Resolution Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values are
registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This
specification defines the following common properties.

contentType

     The MIME type of the returned `did-document-stream`. This property is REQUIRED if resolution is successful and if the `resolveRepresentation` function was called. This property MUST NOT be present if the `resolve` function was called. The value of this property MUST be an ASCII string that is the MIME type of the conformant representations. The caller of the `resolveRepresentation` function MUST use this value when determining how to parse and process the `did-document-stream` returned by this function into the data model. 
error

     The error code from the resolution process. This property is REQUIRED when there is an error in the resolution process. The value of this property MUST be a single keyword ASCII string. The possible property values of this field SHOULD be registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This specification defines the following error values: 

invalidDid

     The DID supplied to the DID resolution function does not conform to valid syntax. (See .) 
notFound

     The DID resolver was unable to find the DID document resulting from this resolution request. 
representationNotSupported

     This error code is returned if the representation requested via the `accept` input metadata property is not supported by the DID method and/or DID resolver implementation. 

### DID Document Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values SHOULD
be registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].
This specification defines the following common properties.

#### created

DID document metadata SHOULD include a `created` property to indicate the
timestamp of the Create operation. The value of the property MUST be a string
formatted as an XML Datetime normalized to UTC 00:00:00 and without sub-second
decimal precision. For example: `2020-12-20T19:17:47Z`.

#### updated

DID document metadata SHOULD include an `updated` property to indicate the
timestamp of the last Update operation for the document version which was
resolved. The value of the property MUST follow the same formatting rules as
the `created` property. The `updated` property is omitted if an Update
operation has never been performed on the DID document. If an `updated`
property exists, it can be the same value as the `created` property when the
difference between the two timestamps is less than one second.

#### deactivated

This property MUST be populated by a boolean value that is true if the DID has
been deactivated, and false if the DID is still active. `true` value if the
DID Method determines that the DID supplied has been deactivated. (See .)

####  nextUpdate

DID document metadata MAY include a `nextUpdate` property if the resolved
document version is not the latest version of the document. It indicates the
timestamp of the next Update operation. The value of the property MUST follow
the same formatting rules as the `created` property.

####  versionId

DID document metadata SHOULD include a `versionId` property to indicate the
version of the last Update operation for the document version which was
resolved. The value of the property MUST be an ASCII string.

####  nextVersionId

DID document metadata MAY include a `nextVersionId` property if the resolved
document version is not the latest version of the document. It indicates the
version of the next Update operation. The value of the property MUST be an
ASCII string.

#### equivalentId

A DID Method can define different forms of a DID that are logically
equivalent. An example is when a DID takes one form prior to registration in a
verifiable data registry and another form after such registration. In this
case, the DID Method specification may need to express one or more DIDs that
are logically equivalent to the resolved DID as a property of the DID
document. This is the purpose of the `equivalentId` property.

equivalentId

     The value of `equivalentId` MUST be an ordered set where each item in the list is a string that conforms to the rules in Section . 
     The relationship is a statement that each `equivalentId` value is logically equivalent to the `id` property value and thus identifies the same DID subject. 
     Each `equivalentId` DID value MUST be produced by, and a form of, the same DID Method as the `id` property value. (e.g. `did:example:abc` == `did:example:ABC`) 
     A conforming DID Method specification MUST guarantee that each `equivalentId` value is logically equivalent to the `id` property value. 
     A requesting party is expected to retain the values from the `id` and `equivalentId` properties to ensure any subsequent interactions with any of the values they contain are correctly handled as logically equivalent (e.g. retain all variants in a database so an interaction with any one maps to the same underlying account). The testability of requesting parties is currently under debate and normative statements related to requesting parties may be downgraded in the future from a MUST to a SHOULD/MAY or similar language.

`equivalentId` is a much stronger form of equivalence than `alsoKnownAs`
because the equivalence MUST be guaranteed by the governing DID method.
`equivalentId` represents a full graph merge because the same DID document
describes both the `equivalentId` DID and the `id` property DID.

If a resolving party does not retain the values from the `id` and
`equivalentId` properties and ensure any subsequent interactions with any of
the values they contain are correctly handled as logically equivalent, there
might be negative or unexpected issues that arise. Implementers are strongly
advised to observe the directives related to this metadata property.

#### canonicalId

The `canonicalId` property is identical to the `equivalentId` property except:
a) it accepts only a single value rather than a list, and b) that DID is
defined to be the canonical ID for the DID subject within the scope of the
containing DID document.

canonicalId

     The value of `canonicalId` MUST be a string that conforms to the rules in Section . 
     The relationship is a statement that the `canonicalId` value is logically equivalent to the `id` property value and that the `canonicalId` value is defined by the DID Method to be the canonical ID for the DID subject in the scope of the containing DID document. 
     A `canonicalId` value MUST be produced by, and a form of, the same DID Method as the `id` property value. (e.g. `did:example:abc` == `did:example:ABC`) 
     A conforming DID Method specification MUST guarantee that the `canonicalId` value is logically equivalent to the `id` property value. 
     A requesting party is expected to use the `canonicalId` value as its primary ID value for the DID subject and treat all other equivalent values as secondary aliases. (e.g. update corresponding primary references in their systems to reflect the new canonical ID directive). The testability of requesting parties is currently under debate and normative statements related to requesting parties may be downgraded in the future from a MUST to a SHOULD/MAY or similar language.

`canonicalId` is the same statement of equivalence as `equivalentId` except it
is constrained to a single value that is defined to be canonical for the DID
subject in the scope of the DID document. Like `equivalentId`, `canonicalId`
represents a full graph merge because the same DID document describes both the
`canonicalId` DID and the `id` property DID.

If a resolving party does not use the `canonicalId` value as its primary ID
value for the DID subject and treat all other equivalent values as secondary
aliases, there might be negative or unexpected issues that arise related to
user experience. Implementers are strongly advised to observe the directives
related to this metadata property.

## DID URL Dereferencing

The DID URL dereferencing function dereferences a DID URL into a resource with
contents depending on the DID URL's components, including the DID method,
method-specific identifier, path, query, and fragment. This process depends on
DID resolution of the DID contained in the DID URL. DID URL dereferencing
might involve multiple steps (e.g., when the DID URL being dereferenced
includes a fragment), and the function is defined to return the final resource
after all steps are completed. The details of how this process is accomplished
are outside the scope of this specification, but all conformant
implementations implement a function which has the following abstract form:

` dereference ( did-url, did-url-dereferencing-input-metadata )  
         -> ( did-url-dereferencing-metadata, content-stream, content-metadata ) `

The input variables of this function are as follows:

did-url

     A conformant DID URL as a single string. This is the DID URL to dereference. To dereference a DID fragment, the complete DID URL including the DID fragment MUST be used. This input is REQUIRED. 
did-url-dereferencing-input-metadata

     A [metadata structure](metadata-structure) consisting of input options to the `dereference` function in addition to the `did-url` itself. Properties defined by this specification are in . This input is REQUIRED, but the structure MAY be empty. 

The output variables of this function are as follows:

did-url-dereferencing-metadata

     A [metadata structure](metadata-structure) consisting of values relating to the results of the DID URL dereferencing process. This structure is REQUIRED and in the case of an error in the dereferencing process, this MUST NOT be empty. Properties defined by this specification are in . If the dereferencing is not successful, this structure MUST contain an `error` property describing the error. 
content-stream

     If the `dereferencing` function was called and successful, this MUST contain a resource corresponding to the DID URL. The `content-stream` SHOULD be a DID document in one of the conformant representations obtained through the resolution process. If the dereferencing is unsuccessful, this value MUST be empty. 
content-metadata

     If the dereferencing is successful, this MUST be a [ metadata structure](metadata-structure), but the structure MAY be empty. This structure contains metadata about the `content-stream`. If the `content-stream` is a DID document, this MUST be a `did-document-metadata` structure as described in DID Resolution. If the dereferencing is unsuccessful, this output MUST be an empty [metadata structure](metadata-structure). 

Conforming DID URL dereferencing implementations do not alter the signature of
these functions in any way. DID URL dereferencing implementations might map
the `dereference` function to a method-specific internal function to perform
the actual DID URL dereferencing process. DID URL dereferencing
implementations might implement and expose additional functions with different
signatures in addition to the `dereference` function specified here.

### DID URL Dereferencing Input Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values SHOULD
be registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].
This specification defines the following common properties.

accept

     The MIME type the caller prefers for `content-stream`. The DID URL dereferencing implementation SHOULD use this value to determine the representation contained in the returned value if such a representation is supported and available. 

### DID URL Dereferencing Metadata Properties

The possible properties within this structure and their possible values are
registered in the DID Specification Registries [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This
specification defines the following common properties.

contentType

     The MIME type of the returned `content-stream` SHOULD be expressed using this property if dereferencing is successful. 
error

     The error code from the dereferencing process. This property is REQUIRED when there is an error in the dereferencing process. The value of this property is a single keyword string. The possible property values of this field SHOULD be registered in the DID Specification Registries [DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]. This specification defines the following error values: 

invalidDidUrl

     The DID URL supplied to the DID URL dereferencing function does not conform to valid syntax. (See .) 
notFound

     The DID URL dereferencer was unable to find the `content-stream` resulting from this dereferencing request. 

## Metadata Structure

Input and output metadata is often involved during the DID Resolution, DID URL
dereferencing, and other DID-related processes. The structure used to
communicate this metadata MUST be a map of properties. Each property name MUST
be a string. Each property value MUST be a string, map, list, ordered set,
boolean, or null. The values within any complex data structures such as maps
and lists MUST be one of these data types as well. All metadata property
definitions MUST define the value type, including any additional formats or
restrictions to that value (for example, a string formatted as a date or as a
decimal integer). It is RECOMMENDED that property definitions use strings for
values.

All implementations of functions that use metadata structures as either input
or output are able to fully represent all data types described here in a
deterministic fashion. As inputs and outputs using metadata structures are
defined in terms of data types and not their serialization, the method for
representation is internal to the implementation of the function and is out of
scope of this specification.

The following example demonstrates a JSON-encoded metadata structure that
might be used as DID resolution input metadata.

    
    
    {
      "accept": "application/did+ld+json"
    }
            

This example corresponds to a metadata structure of the following format:

    
    
    [
      "accept"  "application/did+ld+json"
    ]
            

The next example demonstrates a JSON-encoded metadata structure that might be
used as DID resolution metadata if a DID was not found.

    
    
    {
      "error": "notFound"
    }
            

This example corresponds to a metadata structure of the following format:

    
    
    [
      "error"  "notFound"
    ]
            

The next example demonstrates a JSON-encoded metadata structure that might be
used as DID document metadata to describe timestamps associated with the DID
document.

    
    
    {
      "created": "2019-03-23T06:35:22Z",
      "updated": "2023-08-10T13:40:06Z"
    }
            

This example corresponds to a metadata structure of the following format:

    
    
    [
      "created"  "2019-03-23T06:35:22Z",
      "updated"  "2023-08-10T13:40:06Z"
    ]
            

# Security Considerations

During the Working Draft stage, this section focuses on security topics that
should be important in early implementations. The editors are seeking feedback
on threats and threat mitigations that should be reflected in this section or
elsewhere in the spec. DIDs are designed to operate under the general Internet
threat model used by many IETF standards. We assume uncompromised endpoints,
but anticipate that messages could be read or corrupted on the network.

## Choosing DID Resolvers

The DID Method Registry (see [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]]) contains an informative
list of DID method names and their corresponding DID method specifications.
Implementors need to bear in mind that there is no central authority to
mandate which DID method specification is to be used with any specific DID
method name, but can use the DID Method Registry to make an informed decision
when choosing which DID resolver implementations to use.

## Binding of Identity

The following sections describe binding identities to DIDs and DID documents.

### Proving Control of a DID and DID Document

This section is inaccurate and needs revision.

Signatures and verifiable timestamps allow DID documents to be
cryptographically verifiable.

By itself, a verified signature on a self-signed DID document does not prove
control of a DID. It only proves that the:

  * DID document was not tampered with since it was timestamped. 
  * DID controller(s) controlled the private key used for the signature at the time the timestamp was created. 

Proving control of a DID, that is, the binding between the DID and the DID
document that describes it, requires a two step process:

  1. Resolving the DID to a DID document according to its DID method specification. 
  2. Verifying that the `id` property of the resulting DID document matches the DID that was resolved. 

It should be noted that this process proves control of a DID and DID document
regardless of whether the DID document is signed.

Signatures on DID documents are optional. DID method specifications are
expected to explain and specify their implementation if applicable.

### Proving Control of a Public Key

This section is inaccurate and needs revision.

There are two methods for proving control of the private key corresponding to
a public key description in the DID document: static and dynamic.

The static method is to sign the DID document with the private key. This
proves control of the private key at a time no later than the DID document was
registered. If the DID document is not signed, control of a public key
described in the DID document can still be proven dynamically as follows:

  1. Send a challenge message containing a public key description from the DID document and a nonce to an appropriate service endpoint described in the DID document. 
  2. Verify the signature of the response message against the public key description. 

### Real-World Identity

A DID and DID document do not inherently carry any [
PII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personally_identifiable_information)
(personally-identifiable information).

It can be useful to express a binding of DID to a person's or company's real
world identity, in a way that is provably asserted by a trusted authority such
as a government. This can enable interactions that can be considered legally
valid under one or more jurisdictions; establishing such bindings has to be
carefully balanced against privacy considerations (see ).

The process of binding a DID to something in the real world, such as a person
or a company, for example using verifiable credentials with the same subject
as that DID, is out of scope for this specification. For more information, see
the Verifiable Credentials Data Model [[VC-DATA-MODEL]].

## Authentication Service Endpoints

If a DID document publishes a service intended for authentication or
authorization of the DID subject (see Section ), it is the responsibility of
the service endpoint provider, subject, or requesting party to comply with the
requirements of the authentication protocols supported at that service
endpoint.

## Non-Repudiation

Non-repudiation of DIDs and DID document updates is supported under the
assumption that the subject:

  * Is monitoring for unauthorized updates (see Section ). 
  * Has had adequate opportunity to revert malicious updates according to the access control mechanism for the DID method (see Section ). 

Non-repudiation is further supported if timestamps are included (see Section )
and the target DLT system supports timestamps.

## Notification of DID Document Changes

One mitigation against unauthorized changes to a DID document is monitoring
and actively notifying the DID subject when there are changes. This is
analogous to helping prevent account takeover on conventional
username/password accounts by sending password reset notifications to the
email addresses on file.

In the case of a DID, there is no intermediary registrar or account provider
to generate such notifications. However, if the verifiable data registry on
which the DID is registered directly supports change notifications, a
subscription service can be offered to DID controllers. Notifications could be
sent directly to the relevant service endpoints listed in an existing DID.

If a DID controller chooses to rely on a third-party monitoring service (other
than the verifiable data registry itself), this introduces another vector of
attack.

## Key and Signature Expiration

In a decentralized identifier architecture, there are no centralized
authorities to enforce key or signature expiration policies. Therefore DID
resolvers and requesting parties need to validate that keys were not expired
at the time they were used. Because some use cases have legitimate reasons why
already-expired keys can be extended, make sure key expiration does not
prevent any further use of the key. Implementations of a resolver ought to be
compatible with such extension behavior.

## Verification Method Rotation

Verification method rotation is a proactive security measure.

Verification method rotation applies only to the current or latest version of
a DID Document.

When a verification method has been active for a long time, or used for many
operations, a controller might wish to perform a rotation.

It is considered a best practice to perform verification method rotation on a
regular basis.

Proofs or signatures that rely on verification methods that are not present in
the latest version of a DID Document are not impacted by rotation, and might
require additional information to mitigate compromise.

Section  specifies the DID operations to be supported by a DID method
specification, including update which is expected to be used to perform a
verification method rotation.

A controller performs a rotation when they add a new verification method that
is meant to replace an existing verification method after some time.

Not all DID Methods support verification method rotation.

Rotation is a key management process that enables the private cryptographic
material associated with an existing verification method to be deactivated or
destroyed once a new verification method has been added to the DID Document.
Going forward, any new proofs that a controller would have generated using the
old cryptographic material can now instead be generated using the new material
and can be verified using the new verification method.

Rotation is a useful mechanism for protecting against verification method
compromise, since frequent rotation of a verification method by the controller
reduces the value of a single compromised verification method to an attacker.
Performing revocation immediately after rotation is useful for verification
methods that a controller designates for short-lived verifications, such as
those involved in encrypting messages and authentication.

Higher security environments tend to employ more frequent verification method
rotation.

Frequent rotation of a verification method might be frustrating for parties
that are forced to continuously renew or refresh associated credentials.

## Verification Method Revocation

Verification method revocation is a reactive security measure.

Verification method revocation applies only to the current or latest version
of a DID Document.

If a verification method is no longer exclusively accessible to the controller
or parties trusted to act on behalf of the controller, it is expected to be
revoked immediately to reduce the risk of masquerading, theft, and fraud.

It is considered a best practice to support key revocation.

A controller is expected to immediately revoke any verification method that is
believed to be compromised.

Revocation is expected to be understood as a controller expressing that proofs
or signatures associated with a revoked verification method might have been
created by an attacker. Verifiers, however, might still choose to accept or
reject such proofs or signatures at their own discretion.

As described in Section , absence of a verification method is the only form of
revocation that applies to all DID Methods.

Section  specifies the DID operations to be supported by a DID method
specification, including update and  deactivate which might be used to remove
verification method from a DID Document.

Not all DID Methods support verification method revocation.

Even if a verification method is present in a DID Document, additional
information, such as a public key revocation certificate, or an external allow
or deny list, might be used to determine whether a verification method has
been revoked.

Compromise of the secrets associated with a verification method allows the
attacker to use them according to the verification relationship expressed by
controller in the DID Document, for example, for authentication. The
attacker's use of the secrets might be indistinguishable from the legitimate
controller's use starting from the time the verification method was
registered, to the time it was revoked.

The day-to-day operation of any software relying on a compromised verification
method, such as an individual's operating system, antivirus, or endpoint
protection software, might be impacted when the verification method is
publicly revoked.

Although verifiers might choose not to accept proofs or signatures from a
revoked verification method, knowing whether a verification was made with a
revoked verification method is trickier than it might seem. Some DID methods
provide the ability to look back at the state of a DID at a point in time, or
at a particular version of the DID document. When such a feature is combined
with a reliable way to determine the time or DID version that existed when a
cryptographically verifiable statement was made, then revocation does not undo
that statement. This can be the basis for using DIDs to make binding
commitments (e.g., to sign a mortgage).  
  
If these conditions are met, revocation is not retroactive; it only nullifies
future use of the method.  
  
However, in order for such semantics to be safe, the second condition -- an
ability to know what the state of the DID document was at the time the
assertion was made -- is expected to apply. Without that guarantee, someone
could discover a revoked key and use it to make cryptographically verifiable
statements with a simulated date in the past.  
  
Some DID methods only allow the retrieval of the current state of a DID. When
this is true, or when the state of a DID at the time of cryptographically
verifiable statement cannot be reliably determined, then the only safe
interpretation of revocation is to make it apply both forward and backward in
time. DID ecosystems that take this approach essentially provide
cryptographically verifiable statements as ephemeral tokens that can be
invalidated at any time by the DID controller.

## DID Recovery

Recovery is a reactive security measure, whereby a controller is able to
regain the ability to perform DID operations.

Recovery is advised when a controller or services trusted to act on their
behalf no longer have the exclusive ability to perform DID operations as
described in .

It is considered a best practice to never reuse a verification method or key
material associated with recovery for any other purposes.

Recovery is commonly performed in conjunction with verification method
rotation and verification method revocation.

There are no common recovery mechanisms that apply to all DID Methods.

DID method specifications might choose to enable support for a quorum of
trusted parties to faciliate recovery. Some of the facilities to do so are
suggested in Section .

Not all DID method specifications will recognize control from DIDs registered
using other DID methods and they might restrict third-party control to DIDs
that use the same method.

Access control and recovery in a DID method specification can also include a
time lock feature to protect against key compromise by maintaining a second
track of control for recovery.

Performing recovery proactively on an infrequent but regular basis, can help
to ensure that control has not been lost.

## The Role of Human-Friendly Identifiers

DIDs achieve global uniqueness without the need for a central registration
authority. This comes at the cost of human memorability. The algorithms
capable of generating globally unique identifiers produce random strings of
characters that have no human meaning (see also [Zooko's
Triangle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zooko%27s_triangle)).

There are use cases where it is desirable to discover a DID when starting from
a human-friendly identifier. For example, a natural language name, a domain
name, or a conventional address for a DID controller, such as a mobile
telephone number, email address, social media username, or blog URL. However,
the problem of mapping human-friendly identifiers to DIDs (and doing so in a
way that can be verified and trusted) is outside the scope of this
specification.

Solutions to this problem should be defined in separate specifications that
reference this specification. It is strongly recommended that such
specifications carefully consider the:

  * Numerous security attacks based on deceiving users about the true human-friendly identifier for a target entity. 
  * Privacy consequences of using human-friendly identifiers that are inherently correlatable, especially if they are globally unique. 

A draft specification for discovering a DID from domain names and email
addresses using DNS lookups is available at [[?DNS-DID]].

## DIDs as Enhanced URNs

If desired by a DID controller, a DID is capable of acting as an enhanced
Uniform Resource Name (URN) as defined by [[RFC8141]], i.e., "a persistent,
location-independent resource identifier". DIDs used in this way provide a
cryptographically secure, location-independent identifier for a digital
resource, while also providing metadata that enables retrieval. Because of the
indirection between the DID document and the DID itself, the DID controller
can adjust the actual location of the resource -- or even provide the resource
directly -- without adjusting the DID. DIDs of this type can definitively
verify that the resource retrieved is, in fact, the resource identified.

A DID controller who intends to use a DID for this purpose is advised to
follow the security considerations in [[RFC8141]]. In particular:

  * The DID controller is expected to choose a DID method that supports the controller's requirements for persistence. The Decentralized Characteristics Rubric [[?DID-RUBRIC]] is one tool available to help implementers decide upon the most suitable DID method. 
  * The DID controller is expected to publish its operational policies so relying parties can determine the degree to which they can rely on the persistence of a DID controlled by that DID controller. In the absence of such policies, relying parties are not expected to make any assumption about whether a DID is a persistent identifier for the same DID subject. 

## Immutability

Many cybersecurity abuses hinge on exploiting gaps between reality and the
assumptions of rational, good-faith actors. Immutability of DID documents can
provide some security benefits. Individual DID methods ought to consider
constraints that would eliminate behaviors or semantics they do not need. The
more _locked down_ a DID method is, while providing the same set of features,
the less it can be manipulated by malicious actors.

As an example, consider that a single edit to a DID document can change
anything except the root `id` property of the document. But is it actually
desirable for a service to change its `type` after it is defined? Or for a key
to change its value? Or would it be better to require a new `id` when certain
fundamental properties of an object change? Malicious takeovers of a website
often aim for an outcome where the site keeps its identifier (the host name),
but is subtly changed underneath. If certain properties of the site were
required by the specification to be immutable (for example, the
[ASN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autonomous_system_\(Internet\)) associated
with its IP address), such attacks might be much harder and more expensive to
carry out, and anomaly detection would be easier.

For DID methods tied to a global source of truth, a direct, just-in-time
lookup of the latest version of a DID document is always possible. However, it
seems likely that layers of cache might eventually sit between a DID resolver
and that source of truth. If they do, believing the attributes of an object in
the DID document to have a given state when they are actually subtly different
might invite exploits. This is particularly true if some lookups are of a full
DID document, and others are of partial data where the larger context is
assumed.

## Encrypted Data in DID Documents

Encryption algorithms have been known to fail due to advances in cryptography
and computing power. Implementers are advised to assume that any encrypted
data placed in a DID document might eventually be made available in clear text
to the same audience to which the encrypted data is available. This is
particularly pertinent if the DID document is public.

Encrypting all or parts of DID documents is _not_ an appropriate means to
protect data in the long term. Similarly, placing encrypted data in DID
documents is not an appropriate means to include personally identifiable
information.

Given the caveats above, if encrypted data is included in a DID document,
implementers are advised to not encrypt with the public keys of entities that
do not wish to be correlated with the DID.

## Equivalence Properties

The three equivalence properties`alsoKnownAs`, `equivalentId`, and
`canonicalId`are subject to special security considerations related to
attacks against DIDs that are asserted to be equivalent.

The `equivalentId` and `canonicalId` properties that constrain equivalence
assertions to variants of a single DID produced by the same DID method (e.g.
`did:foo:123`  `did:foo:hash(123)`) can be trusted to the extent the
requesting party trusts the DID method (and a conforming producer) itself.

The `alsoKnownAs` property that permits an equivalence assertion to URIs that
are not governed by the same DID method (or may not be DIDs at all) cannot be
trusted without performing verification steps outside of the governing DID
method. See additional guidence in .

As with any other sensitive properties in the DID document (e.g. public key
references), parties relying on any equivalence statement in a DID document
should guard against the values of these properties being substituted by an
attacker after the proper verification has been performed. Any write access to
a DID document stored in memory or disk after verification has been performed
is an attack vector that will circumvent verification unless the DID document
is re-verified.

## Content Integrity Protection

DID documents which include external JSON-LD contexts (see ) or any other
links to external machine-readable content are vulnerable to tampering.

DID document consumers can cache local static copies of JSON-LD contexts
and/or verify the integrity of external contexts against the cryptographic
hash for the context as registered in the DID Specification Registries (see
the registration process for more detail) [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]].

## Persistence

DIDs are designed to be persistent such that a controller need not rely upon a
single trusted third party or administrator to maintain their identifiers. No
administrator can take control away from the controller, nor can an
administrator prevent their identifiers' use for any particular purpose such
as authentication, authorization, and attestation. No third party can act on
behalf of a controller to remove or render inoperable an individual's (or an
organization's) identifier without the controller's consent.

However, it is important to note that in all DID Methods that enable
cryptographic proof-of-control, the means of proving control can always be
transferred to another party by transferring the cryptographic secrets.
Therefore, it is vital that systems relying on the persistence of an
identifier over time regularly check to ensure that the identifier is, in
fact, still under the control of the intended party.

Unfortunately, it is impossible to determine from the cryptography alone
whether or not the private key material associated with a given proof
mechanism has been compromised. It might well be that the expected controller
still has access to the private keys -- and as such can execute a proof-of-
control as part of a verification process -- while at the same time, a bad
actor also has access to (or a copy of) those same keys.

As such, cryptographic proof-of-control is expected to only be used as one
factor in evaluating the level of identity assurance for a given service. DID-
based authentication provides much greater assurance than a username and
password, thanks to the ability to determine control over a secret without
transmitting that secret between systems. However, it is not infallible.
Services that perform sensitive, high value, or life-critical operations
should use additional factors as appropriate.

In addition to potential ambiguity from use by different controllers, it is
impossible to guarantee, in general, that a given DID is being used in
reference to the same subject at any given point in time. It is technically
possible for the controller to reuse a DID for different subjects and, more
subtly, for the precise definition of the Subject to either change over time
or be misunderstood.

For example, consider a DID used for a sole proprietership, receiving various
credentials used for financial transactions. To the controller, that
identifier referred to the business. As the business grows, it eventually gets
incorporated as an LLC. The controller continues using that same DID, because
to **them** the DID refers to the business. However, to the state, the tax
authority, and the local municipality, the DID no longer refers to the same
entity. Whether or not the subtle shift in meaning matters to a credit
provider or supplier is necessarily up to them to decide. In many cases, as
long as the bills get paid and collections can be enforced, the shift is
immaterial.

Because of these potential ambiguities, DIDs should be considered valid
_contextually_ rather than absolutely. Their persistence does not imply that
they refer to the exact same Subject, nor that they are under the control of
the same controller. Instead, one needs to understand the context in which the
DID was created, how it is used, and consider the likely shifts in their
meaning, and adopt procedures and policies to address both potential and
inevitable semantic drift.

=======

## Level of Assurance

Additional information about the security context of authentication events is
often required for compliance reasons, especially in regulated areas such as
the financial and public sectors. Examples include but are not limited to
protection of secret keys, the identity proofing process, and the form-factor
of the authenticator. For example, [ Payment services (PSD
2)](https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/payment-services-psd-2-directive-
eu-2015-2366_en) and [ eIDAS](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2014.257.01.0073.01.ENG) introduce such
requirements to the security context. Level of Assurance (LoA) frameworks are
classified and defined by, for example, [ eIDAS](https://eur-
lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2014.257.01.0073.01.ENG), [ NIST
800-63-3](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63-3.html) and [ ISO/IEC
29115:2013](https://www.iso.org/standard/45138.html), including their
requirements for the security context, and making recommendations on how to
achieve them. This might include strong user authentication and
[FIDO2](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2)/[WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/)
can be potential implementations. A LoA represents the level of confidence
that an entity is in fact that entity. Some regulated use cases require the
implementation of a certain LoA. Since verification relationships such as `
assertionMethod` and `authentication` might be used in some of these use
cases, information about the applied security context might need to be
expressed and provided to a _verifier_. Whether and how to encode this
information in the DID document data model is out of scope for this
specification, but it should be noted that the DID document data model can be
extended if necessary (see Extensibility section). Section Privacy
Considerations remains applicable for such extensions.

# Privacy Considerations

It is critically important to apply the principles of Privacy by Design
[[PRIVACY-BY-DESIGN]] to all aspects of the decentralized identifier
architecture, because DIDs and DID documents are, by design, administered
directly by the DID controller(s). There is no registrar, hosting company, or
other intermediate service provider to recommend or apply additional privacy
safeguards. The authors of this specification have applied all seven Privacy
by Design principles throughout its development. Privacy in this specification
is preventative not remedial, and privacy is an embedded default.

## Keep Personally-Identifiable Information (PII) Private

If a DID method specification is written for a public verifiable data registry
where all DIDs and DID documents are publicly available, it is _critical_ that
DID documents contain no personally-identifiable information.

Personally-identifiable information can instead be placed behind service
endpoints under control of the DID subject or DID controller. Due diligence
should be taken around the use of URLs in service endpoints to prevent leakage
of personal data or correlation within a URL of a service endpoint. For
example, a URL that contains a username is dangerous to include in a DID
Document because the username is likely to be human-meaningful in a way that
can reveal information that the DID subject did not consent to sharing. With
this privacy architecture, personal data can be exchanged on a private, peer-
to-peer basis using communications channels identified and secured by public
key descriptions in DID documents. This also enables DID subjects and
requesting parties to implement the
[GDPR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation)
[right to be forgotten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right_to_be_forgotten),
because no personal data is written to an immutable distributed ledger.

## DID Correlation Risks and Pseudonymous DIDs

Like any type of globally unique identifier, DIDs might be used for
correlation. DID controllers can mitigate this privacy risk by using pairwise
unique DIDs, that is, sharing a different private DID for every relationship.
In effect, each DID acts as a pseudonym. A pseudonymous DID need only be
shared with more than one party when the DID subject explicitly authorizes
correlation between those parties. If pseudonymous DIDs are the default, then
the only need for a public DID (a DID published openly or shared with a large
number of parties) is when the DID subject explicitly desires public
identification.

## DID Document Correlation Risks

The anti-correlation protections of pseudonymous DIDs are easily defeated if
the data in the corresponding DID documents can be correlated. For example,
using same public key descriptions or bespoke service endpoints in multiple
DID documents can provide as much correlation information as using the same
DID. Therefore the DID document for a pseudonymous DID also needs to use
pairwise unique public keys. It might seem natural to also use pairwise unique
service endpoints in the DID document for a pseudonymous DID. However, unique
endpoints allow all traffic between two DIDs to be isolated perfectly into
unique buckets, where timing correlation and similar analysis is easy.
Therefore, a better strategy for endpoint privacy might be to share an
endpoint among thousands or millions of DIDs controlled by many different
subjects. See also .

## Assigning a type to the DID subject

It is dangerous to add properties to the DID document that can be used to
indicate, explicitly or through inference, what _type_ or nature of thing the
DID subject is, particularly if the DID subject is a person.

Not only do such properties potentially result in personally identifiable
information (see ) or correlatable data (see  and ) being present in the DID
document, but they can be used for grouping particular DIDs in such a way that
they are included in or excluded from certain operations or functionalities.

Including _type_ information in a DID Document can result in personal privacy
harms even for DID Subjects that are non-person entities, such as IoT devices.
The aggregation of such information around a DID Controller could serve as a
form of digital fingerprint and this is best avoided.

To minimize these risks, all properties in a DID document ought to be for
expressing cryptographic material, endpoints, or verification methods related
to using the DID.

## Herd Privacy

When a DID subject is indistinguishable from others in the herd, privacy is
available. When the act of engaging privately with another party is by itself
a recognizable flag, privacy is greatly diminished.

DIDs and DID methods need to work to improve herd privacy, particularly for
those who legitimately need it most. Choose technologies and human interfaces
that default to preserving anonymity and pseudonymity. To reduce [digital
fingerprints](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Device_fingerprint), share common
settings across requesting party implementations, keep negotiated options to a
minimum on wire protocols, use encrypted transport layers, and pad messages to
standard lengths.

## Service Privacy

The ability for a controller to optionally state at least one service endpoint
in the DID document increases their control and agency. Each additional
endpoint in the DID document adds privacy risk either due to correlation
(e.g., across endpoint descriptions) or because the services are not protected
by an authorization mechanism, or both.

The degree of additional privacy risk caused by using multiple service
endpoints in one DID document can be difficult to estimate. Privacy harms are
typically unintended consequences. DIDs can identify documents, services,
schemas, and other things that may be associated with individual people,
households, clubs, and employers -- and correlation of their service endpoints
could become a powerful surveillance and inference tool.

DID documents are often public and will be stored and indexed efficiently by
their very standards-based nature. This risk is worse if DID documents are
published to immutable Verifiable Data Registries. Access to a history of the
DID documents referenced by a DID represents a form of traffic analysis made
more efficient through the use of standards.

Examples of service endpoints in DID documents come in three broad categories:

  1. Intentional public disclosures 
  2. DIDs about natural persons (as might be covered by GDPR and similar privacy regulations) 
  3. DIDs about things and documents that are associated with natural persons 

For the first category, consider non-DID publication mechanisms with only a
single service endpoint. In some cases, the publication mechanism might
reference a DID Document with no service endpoints at all. For the second
category, prefer using only one service that points to an authorization
server, mediator, or proxy that can provide herd privacy. For the third
category, avoid the use of multiple service endpoints for a DID because some
of these (e.g., an authorization server) are likely to be reused with other,
related DIDs. Place correlatable service endpoints behind a privacy-preserving
mechanism, if possible, or introduce a mediator or proxy as a sole service
endpoint in order to obscure related devices and documents through herd
privacy.

# Examples

## DID Documents

See [ Verification Method Types](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-spec-
registries/#verification-method-types) [[?DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES]] for optional
extensions and other verification method types.

These examples are for information purposes only, it is considered a best
practice to avoid using the same verification method for multiple purposes.

    
    
      {
        "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
        "id": "did:example:123",
        "authentication": [
          {
            "id": "did:example:123#z6MkecaLyHuYWkayBDLw5ihndj3T1m6zKTGqau3A51G7RBf3",
            "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
            "controller": "did:example:123",
            "publicKeyBase58": "AKJP3f7BD6W4iWEQ9jwndVTCBq8ua2Utt8EEjJ6Vxsf"
          }
        ],
        "capabilityInvocation": [
          {
            "id": "did:example:123#z6MkhdmzFu659ZJ4XKj31vtEDmjvsi5yDZG5L7Caz63oP39k",
            "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
            "controller": "did:example:123",
            "publicKeyBase58": "4BWwfeqdp1obQptLLMvPNgBw48p7og1ie6Hf9p5nTpNN"
          }
        ],
        "capabilityDelegation": [
          {
            "id": "did:example:123#z6Mkw94ByR26zMSkNdCUi6FNRsWnc2DFEeDXyBGJ5KTzSWyi",
            "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
            "controller": "did:example:123",
            "publicKeyBase58": "Hgo9PAmfeoxHG8Mn2XHXamxnnSwPpkyBHAMNF3VyXJCL"
          }
        ],
        "assertionMethod": [
          {
            "id": "did:example:123#z6MkiukuAuQAE8ozxvmahnQGzApvtW7KT5XXKfojjwbdEomY",
            "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
            "controller": "did:example:123",
            "publicKeyBase58": "5TVraf9itbKXrRvt2DSS95Gw4vqU3CHAdetoufdcKazA"
          }
        ]
    }
          
    
    
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
      "id": "did:example:123",
      "verificationMethod": [
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#ZC2jXTO6t4R501bfCXv3RxarZyUbdP2w_psLwMuY6ec",
          "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2018", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyBase58": "H3C2AVvLMv6gmMNam3uVAjZpfkcJCwDwnZn6z3wXmqPV"
        },
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#zQ3shP2mWsZYWgvgM11nenXRTx9L1yiJKmkf9dfX7NaMKb1pX",
          "type": "EcdsaSecp256k1VerificationKey2019", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyBase58": "d5cW2R53NHTTkv7EQSYR8YxaKx7MVCcchjmK5EgCNXxo",
        },
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A",
          "type": "JsonWebKey2020", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyJwk": {
            "kty": "OKP", // external (property name)
            "crv": "Ed25519", // external (property name)
            "x": "VCpo2LMLhn6iWku8MKvSLg2ZAoC-nlOyPVQaO3FxVeQ" // external (property name)
          }
        },
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#z6LSnjagzhe8Df6gZmroW3wjDd7XQLwAuYfwa4ZeTBCGFoYc",
          "type": "JsonWebKey2020", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyJwk": {
            "kty": "OKP", // external (property name)
            "crv": "X25519", // external (property name)
            "x": "pE_mG098rdQjY3MKK2D5SUQ6ZOEW3a6Z6T7Z4SgnzCE" // external (property name)
          },
        }
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#4SZ-StXrp5Yd4_4rxHVTCYTHyt4zyPfN1fIuYsm6k3A",
          "type": "JsonWebKey2020", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyJwk": {
            "kty": "EC", // external (property name)
            "crv": "secp256k1", // external (property name)
            "x": "Z4Y3NNOxv0J6tCgqOBFnHnaZhJF6LdulT7z8A-2D5_8", // external (property name)
            "y": "i5a2NtJoUKXkLm6q8nOEu9WOkso1Ag6FTUT6k_LMnGk" // external (property name)
          }
        },
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#n4cQ-I_WkHMcwXBJa7IHkYu8CMfdNcZKnKsOrnHLpFs",
          "type": "JsonWebKey2020", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyJwk": {
            "kty": "RSA", // external (property name)
            "e": "AQAB", // external (property name)
            "n": "omwsC1AqEk6whvxyOltCFWheSQvv1MExu5RLCMT4jVk9khJKv8JeMXWe3bWHatjPskdf2dlaGkW5QjtOnUKL742mvr4tCldKS3ULIaT1hJInMHHxj2gcubO6eEegACQ4QSu9LO0H-LM_L3DsRABB7Qja8HecpyuspW1Tu_DbqxcSnwendamwL52V17eKhlO4uXwv2HFlxufFHM0KmCJujIKyAxjD_m3q__IiHUVHD1tDIEvLPhG9Azsn3j95d-saIgZzPLhQFiKluGvsjrSkYU5pXVWIsV-B2jtLeeLC14XcYxWDUJ0qVopxkBvdlERcNtgF4dvW4X00EHj4vCljFw" // external (property name)
          }
        },
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#_TKzHv2jFIyvdTGF1Dsgwngfdg3SH6TpDv0Ta1aOEkw",
          "type": "JsonWebKey2020", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyJwk": {
            "kty": "EC", // external (property name)
            "crv": "P-256", // external (property name)
            "x": "38M1FDts7Oea7urmseiugGW7tWc3mLpJh6rKe7xINZ8", // external (property name)
            "y": "nDQW6XZ7b_u2Sy9slofYLlG03sOEoug3I0aAPQ0exs4" // external (property name)
          }
        },
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#8wgRfY3sWmzoeAL-78-oALNvNj67ZlQxd1ss_NX1hZY",
          "type": "JsonWebKey2020", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyJwk": {
            "kty": "EC", // external (property name)
            "crv": "P-384", // external (property name)
            "x": "GnLl6mDti7a2VUIZP5w6pcRX8q5nvEIgB3Q_5RI2p9F_QVsaAlDN7IG68Jn0dS_F", // external (property name)
            "y": "jq4QoAHKiIzezDp88s_cxSPXtuXYFliuCGndgU4Qp8l91xzD1spCmFIzQgVjqvcP" // external (property name)
          }
        },
        {
          "id": "did:example:123#NjQ6Y_ZMj6IUK_XkgCDwtKHlNTUTVjEYOWZtxhp1n-E",
          "type": "JsonWebKey2020", // external (property value)
          "controller": "did:example:123",
          "publicKeyJwk": {
            "kty": "EC", // external (property name)
            "crv": "P-521", // external (property name)
            "x": "AVlZG23LyXYwlbjbGPMxZbHmJpDSu-IvpuKigEN2pzgWtSo--Rwd-n78nrWnZzeDc187Ln3qHlw5LRGrX4qgLQ-y", // external (property name)
            "y": "ANIbFeRdPHf1WYMCUjcPz-ZhecZFybOqLIJjVOlLETH7uPlyG0gEoMWnIZXhQVypPy_HtUiUzdnSEPAylYhHBTX2" // external (property name)
          }
        }
      ]
    }
          

## Proving

These examples are for information purposes only. See [W3C Verifiable
Credentials Data Model](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/) for additional
examples.

    
    
    {  // external (all terms in this example)
      "@context": [
        "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
        "https://w3id.org/citizenship/v1"
      ],
      "type": [
        "VerifiableCredential",
        "PermanentResidentCard"
      ],
      "credentialSubject": {
        "id": "did:example:123",
        "type": [
          "PermanentResident",
          "Person"
        ],
        "givenName": "JOHN",
        "familyName": "SMITH",
        "gender": "Male",
        "image": "data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgo...kJggg==",
        "residentSince": "2015-01-01",
        "lprCategory": "C09",
        "lprNumber": "000-000-204",
        "commuterClassification": "C1",
        "birthCountry": "Bahamas",
        "birthDate": "1958-08-17"
      },
      "issuer": "did:example:456",
      "issuanceDate": "2020-04-22T10:37:22Z",
      "identifier": "83627465",
      "name": "Permanent Resident Card",
      "description": "Government of Example Permanent Resident Card.",
      "proof": {
        "type": "Ed25519Signature2018",
        "created": "2020-04-22T10:37:22Z",
        "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
        "verificationMethod": "did:example:456#key-1",
        "jws": "eyJjcml0IjpbImI2NCJdLCJiNjQiOmZhbHNlLCJhbGciOiJFZERTQSJ9..BhWew0x-txcroGjgdtK-yBCqoetg9DD9SgV4245TmXJi-PmqFzux6Cwaph0r-mbqzlE17yLebjfqbRT275U1AA"
      }
    }
        
    
    
    {  // external (all terms in this example)
      "@context": [
        "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
        "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
      ],
      "id": "http://example.gov/credentials/3732",
      "type": ["VerifiableCredential", "UniversityDegreeCredential"],
      "issuer": { "id": "did:example:123" },
      "issuanceDate": "2020-03-10T04:24:12.164Z",
      "credentialSubject": {
        "id": "did:example:456",
        "degree": {
          "type": "BachelorDegree",
          "name": "Bachelor of Science and Arts"
        }
      },
      "proof": {
        "type": "JsonWebSignature2020",
        "created": "2020-02-15T17:13:18Z",
        "verificationMethod": "did:example:123#_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A",
        "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
        "jws": "eyJiNjQiOmZhbHNlLCJjcml0IjpbImI2NCJdLCJhbGciOiJFZERTQSJ9..Y0KqovWCPAeeFhkJxfQ22pbVl43Z7UI-X-1JX32CA9MkFHkmNprcNj9Da4Q4QOl0cY3obF8cdDRdnKr0IwNrAw"
      }
    }
        
    
    
    { // external (all terms in this example)
      "protected": {
        "kid": "did:example:123#_Qq0UL2Fq651Q0Fjd6TvnYE-faHiOpRlPVQcY_-tA4A",
        "alg": "EdDSA"
      },
      "payload": {
        "iss": "did:example:123",
        "sub": "did:example:456",
        "vc": {
          "@context": [
            "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
            "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
          ],
          "id": "http://example.gov/credentials/3732",
          "type": [
            "VerifiableCredential",
            "UniversityDegreeCredential"
          ],
          "issuer": {
            "id": "did:example:123"
          },
          "issuanceDate": "2020-03-10T04:24:12.164Z",
          "credentialSubject": {
            "id": "did:example:456",
            "degree": {
              "type": "BachelorDegree",
              "name": "Bachelor of Science and Arts"
            }
          }
        },
        "jti": "http://example.gov/credentials/3732",
        "nbf": 1583814252
      },
      "signature": "qSv6dpZJGFybtcifLwGf4ujzlEu-fam_M7HPxinCbVhz9iIJCg70UMeQbPa1ex6BmQ2tnSS7F11FHnMB2bJRAw"
    }
          

## Encrypting

These examples are for information purposes only, it is considered a best
practice to avoid dislosing unnecessary information in JWE headers.

    
    
    { // external (all terms in this example)
      "ciphertext": "3SHQQJajNH6q0fyAHmw...",
      "iv": "QldSPLVnFf2-VXcNLza6mbylYwphW57Q",
      "protected": "eyJlbmMiOiJYQzIwUCJ9",
      "recipients": [
        {
          "encrypted_key": "BMJ19zK12YHftJ4sr6Pz1rX1HtYni_L9DZvO1cEZfRWDN2vXeOYlwA",
          "header": {
            "alg": "ECDH-ES+A256KW",
            "apu": "Tx9qG69ZfodhRos-8qfhTPc6ZFnNUcgNDVdHqX1UR3s",
            "apv": "ZGlkOmVsZW06cm9wc3RlbjpFa...",
            "epk": {
              "crv": "X25519",
              "kty": "OKP",
              "x": "Tx9qG69ZfodhRos-8qfhTPc6ZFnNUcgNDVdHqX1UR3s"
            },
            "kid": "did:example:123#zC1Rnuvw9rVa6E5TKF4uQVRuQuaCpVgB81Um2u17Fu7UK"
          }
        }
      ],
      "tag": "xbfwwDkzOAJfSVem0jr1bA"
    }
          

# Current Issues

The list of issues below are under active discussion and are likely to result
in changes to this specification.

Issues in "Note on Persistence" in DID Syntax section

`updated` property's initial value is not defined clearly

Should "deactivated" be an error code?

Naming classes of properties and syntax

The relationship between Verifiable Data Registry and DID Document haven't
shown in Figure 1

Compound key is not clear and points to wikipedia not a normative definition

Differentiate external properties in examples

DID Spec Registries needs terminolgical criteria

Precise specification of the DID Core Vocabulary

DID Fragment semantics cleanup needed

Section "Authentication and Verifiable Claims": Add subsection about key
security

need to clarify revocation vs. rotation

Proposed Appendices on DID Identification Architecture

Consider EFF / ACLU objections by distinguaishing accountable vs. voluntary
DIDs

When should did parameters be dropped?

Privacy Considerations for service endpoints

Horizontal Review Tracking

PING Horizontal Review

IETF did+ld+json media type registration

Clarification on what DIDs might identify

Public key "id" and "type" members duplicate JWK "kid" and "kty" members

Uses of terms defined in the specification should be links to their
definitions

Horizontal Review: offer review opportunity to TAG

Specification needs to be compliant with WCAG 2.0

Horizontal Review: Accessibility self test

Horizontal Review: Internationalization self test

Privacy Considerations - Specifically call out GDPR

# Frequently Asked Questions about DID Identification

# What types of resources can a DID identify?

Since a DID is a specific type of URI (Uniform Resource Identifier), the
answer to this question is provided by section 1.1 of the URI specification
[[!RFC3986]]:

> This specification does not limit the scope of what might be a resource;
> rather, the term "resource" is used in a general sense for whatever might be
> identified by a URI. Familiar examples include an electronic document, an
> image, a source of information with a consistent purpose (e.g., "today's
> weather report for Los Angeles"), a service (e.g., an HTTP-to-SMS gateway),
> and a collection of other resources. A resource is not necessarily
> accessible via the Internet; e.g., human beings, corporations, and bound
> books in a library can also be resources. Likewise, abstract concepts can be
> resources, such as the operators and operands of a mathematical equation,
> the types of a relationship (e.g., "parent" or "employee"), or numeric
> values (e.g., zero, one, and infinity).

In other words, it does not matter whether a resource is on or off the
Internetif it can be identified, it can be assigned a URI, and therefore it
can be assigned a DID.

# How do you know what a DID identifies?

For any DID, the DID controller determines the DID subject. It is not expected
to be possible to determine the DID subject from looking at the DID itself.
The reason is that, in order to satisfy several core properties of a DID as an
identifierespecially decentralization and cryptographic verifiabilityDIDs
are generally only meaningful to machines, not humans. To illustrate, compare
the following two URIs:

`https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/WorkMode/getting-started`

`did:example:8uQhQMGzWxR8vw5P3UWH1j`

The first is the URL of the Getting Started page of the W3C DID Working Group.
This is a human-meaningful identifier (at least to someone who understands the
English language). In this sense, the reader can be said to know what the
URL identifies without having to dereference it (provided the reader trusts
the publisher of the URL).

The second URIthe example DIDis meaningless to humans no matter what
language you speak. What it identifies is anyones guess in the absence of
further information describing the DID subject. So further information about
the DID subject is only discoverable by resolving the DID to the DID document,
obtaining a verifiable credential about the DID, or via some other description
of the DID.

# Does the DID identify the DID document?

No. To be very precise, the DID identifies the DID subject and _resolves to_
the DID document (by following the protocol specified by the DID method). The
DID document is not a separate resource from the DID subject and does not have
a URI separate from the DID. Rather the DID document is an artifact of DID
resolution controlled by the DID controller for the purpose of describing the
DID subject.

This distinction is illustrated by the graph model shown below.

![

Diagram showing a graph model for how DID controllers assign DIDs to identify

DID subjects and resolve to DID documents that describe the DID subjects.

          ](diagrams/figure-a.1-did-and-did-document-graph.png) A DID is an identifier assigned by a DID controller to identify a DID subject and resolve to a DID document that describes the DID subject. The DID document is an artifact of DID resolution and not a separate resource distinct from the DID subject. 

# What does the DID document say about the DID subject?

Each property in a DID document is a statement by the DID controller that
refers to:

  * The string of characters defining identifiers for the DID subject (e.g., the `id` and `alsoKnownAs` properties) 
  * How to interact with the DID subject (e.g., the `verificationMethod` and `service` properties). 
  * How to interpret the specific representation of the DID document (e.g., the `@context` property for a JSON-LD representation). 

There is only one required property in a DID documentthe `id` propertyso
that is the only statement guaranteed to be in a DID document. That statement
is illustrated by the solid red arrow in figure 2 asserting that the DID
identifies the DID subject.

# How can you discover more information about the DID subject?

There are two basic options for discovery of more information about the DID
subject. The first option is to request more information from a service
endpoint if one or more are present in the DID document. An example would be
to query a service endpoint that supports verifiable credentials for one or
more claims (attributes) describing the DID subject.

A second option is to use the `alsoKnownAs` property if it is present in the
DID document. The DID controller can use it to provide a list of other URIs
(including other DIDs) that identify the same DID subject. Resolving or
dereferencing these URIs might yield other descriptions or representations of
the DID subject as illustrated in the figure below.

![

            Diagram showing a graph model that adds to figure 2 by showing an
            alsoKnownAs property with an arc to another node representing a
            different resource that dereferences to another description of the
            DID subject.
          ](diagrams/figure-a.2-also-known-as-graph.png) A DID document can use the alsoKnownAs property to assert another URI (including another DID) that identifies the same DID subject

This mechanism is how DID identification can fulfill guidance from the W3C in
[Cool URIs for the Semantic Web](https://www.w3.org/TR/cooluris/):

> Given only a URI, machines and people should be able to retrieve a
> description about the resource identified by the URI from the Web. Such a
> look-up mechanism is important to establish shared understanding of what a
> URI identifies. Machines should get RDF data and humans should get a
> readable representation, such as HTML.

Note that it is not required that a DID document use an RDF-based
representation; see .

## Can the DID document serve as a representation of the DID subject?

If the DID subject is a digital resource that can be retrieved from the
Internet, then yes, the DID document can serve as a representation of the DID
subject. For example, a data schema that needs a persistent, cryptographically
verifiable identifier could be assigned a DID, and its DID document could be
used as a standard way to retrieve a representation of that schema.

Alternately, a DID can be used to identify a digital resource that can be
returned directly from a verifiable data registry if that functionality is
supported by the applicable DID method.

# Can existing web resources also be assigned DIDs?

Yes, if the controller of a web page or any other web resource wants to assign
it a persistent, cryptographically verifiable identifier, the controller can
give it a DID. For example, the author of a blog hosted by a blog hosting
company (under that hosting companys own URL) could create a DID for the
blog. In the DID document, the author can include an alsoKnownAs property
pointing to the current URL of the blog:

` "alsoKnownAs": ["https://myblog.blogging-host.example/home"] `

If the author subsequently moves the blog to a different hosting company (or
to the authors own domain), the author can update the DID document to point
to the new URL for the blog:

` "alsoKnownAs": ["https://myblog.example/"] `

The DID effectively adds a layer of indirection for the blog URL. This layer
of indirection is under the control of the author instead of under the control
of an external administrative authority such as the blog hosting company. This
is how a DID can effectively function as an enhanced [URN (Uniform Resource
Name)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8141)a persistent identifier for an
information resource whose network location might change over time.

# What is the relationship between DID controllers and DID subjects?

To avoid confusion, it is helpful to classify DID subjects into two disjoint
sets based on their relationship to the DID controller.

## Set #1: The DID subject _is_ the DID controller

The first case, shown in figure 4, is the common scenario where the DID
subject is also the DID controller. This is the case when an individual or
organization creates a DID to self-identify.

![

            Diagram showing the same graph model as figure 2 except with an
            equivalence arc from the DID subject to the DID controller.
          ](diagrams/figure-b.1-controller-and-subject-equivalence.png) The DID subject is the same entity as the DID controller

From a graph model perspective, even though the nodes identified as the DID
controller and DID subject in figure 4 are distinct, there is a logical arc
connecting them to express a semantic equivalence relationship (in RDF/OWL,
this is expressed using the [`owl:sameAs`
predicate)](https://www.w3.org/TR/owl-ref/#sameAs-def).

## Set #2: The DID subject is _not_ the DID controller

The second case is when the DID subject is a separate entity from the DID
controller. This is the case when, for example, a parent creates and maintains
control of a DID for a child; a corporation creates and maintains control of a
DID for a subsidiary; or a manufacturer creates and maintains control of a DID
for a product, an IoT device, or a digital file.

From a graph model perspective, the only difference from Set 1 that there is
no equivalence arc relationship between the DID subject and DID controller
nodes.

# Can a DID document have multiple DID Controllers?

Yes. A DID document might have more than one DID controller. In this situation
there are two basic options available for how control can be shared.

## Option #1: Independent Control

In the first option, shown in the figure below, each of the DID controllers
might act on its own, i.e., each one has full power to update the DID document
independently. From a graph model perspective, in this configuration:

  * Each additional DID controller is another distinct graph node (which might be identified by its own DID). 
  * The same arcs (controls and controller) exist between each DID controller and the DID document. 

![

            Diagram showing three DID controllers each with an independent
            control relationship with the DID document
          ](diagrams/figure-c.1-independent-did-controllers.png) Multiple independent DID controllers that can each act independently 

## Option #2: Group Control

In the second option, the DID controllers are expected to act together in some
fashion, such as when using a cryptographic algorithm that requires multiple
digital signatures (multi-sig) or a threshold number of digital signatures
(m-of-n). From a functional standpoint, this option is similar to a single
DID controller because, although each of the DID controllers in the DID
controller group has its own graph node, the actual control collapses into a
single logical graph node representing the DID controller group as shown in
this figure:

![

            Diagram showing how three DID controllers act together as a single
            DID controller group to control a DID document
          ](diagrams/figure-c.2-group-did-controllers.png) Multiple DID controllers who are expected to act together as a DID controller group 

This configuration will often apply when the DID subject is an organization,
corporation, government agency, community, or other group that is not
controlled by a single individual.

# IANA Considerations

This section will be submitted to the Internet Engineering Steering Group
(IESG) for review, approval, and registration with IANA when this
specification becomes a W3C Proposed Recommendation.

## application/did+json

Type name:

    application
Subtype name:

    did+json
Required parameters:

    None
Optional parameters:

    None
Encoding considerations:

     See RFC 8259, section 11. 
Security considerations:

     See RFC 8259, section 12 [[RFC8259]]. 
Interoperability considerations:

    Not Applicable
Published specification:

    http://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/
Applications that use this media type:

     Any application that requires an identifier that is decentralized, persistent, cryptographically verifiable, and resolvable. Applications typically consist of cryptographic identity systems, decentralized networks of devices, and websites that issue or verify W3C Verifiable Credentials. 
Additional information:

    

Magic number(s):

    Not Applicable
File extension(s):

    .did
Macintosh file type code(s):

    TEXT
Person & email address to contact for further information:

    Ivan Herman <ivan@w3.org>
Intended usage:

    Common
Restrictions on usage:

    None
Author(s):

     Drummond Reed, Manu Sporny, Markus Sabadello, Dave Longley, Christopher Allen 
Change controller:

    W3C

Fragment identifiers used with application/did+json are treated according to
the rules defined in .

## application/did+ld+json

Use of the media type `application/did+ld+json` is pending clarification over
the registration of [ media types with multiple
suffixes](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-w3cdidwg-media-types-
with-multiple-suffixes). The alternative will be to use `application/ld+json`
with an expected profile parameter of `https://www.w3.org/ns/did/json-ld-
profile` if multiple suffixes cannot be registered by the time the rest of DID
Core is ready for W3C Proposed Recommendation. Discussion is happening in the
[ IETF media-types mailing list](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/media-
types/Sv8oT38p1nWHPYZQmnL_9GPjeic/).

Type name:

    application
Subtype name:

    did+ld+json
Required parameters:

    None
Optional parameters:

    None
Encoding considerations:

     See RFC 8259, section 11. 
Security considerations:

     See JSON-LD 1.1, Security Considerations [[JSON-LD11]]. 
Interoperability considerations:

    Not Applicable
Published specification:

    http://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/
Applications that use this media type:

     Any application that requires an identifier that is decentralized, persistent, cryptographically verifiable, and resolvable. Applications typically consist of cryptographic identity systems, decentralized networks of devices, and websites that issue or verify W3C Verifiable Credentials. 
Additional information:

    

Magic number(s):

    Not Applicable
File extension(s):

    .did
Macintosh file type code(s):

    TEXT
Person & email address to contact for further information:

    Ivan Herman <ivan@w3.org>
Intended usage:

    Common
Restrictions on usage:

    None
Author(s):

     Drummond Reed, Manu Sporny, Markus Sabadello, Dave Longley, Christopher Allen 
Change controller:

    W3C

Fragment identifiers used with application/did+ld+json are treated according
to the rules associated with the JSON-LD 1.1: application/ld+json media type
[[JSON-LD11]].

## application/did+cbor

Type name:

    application
Subtype name:

    did+cbor
Required parameters:

    None
Optional parameters:

    None
Encoding considerations:

     See RFC 7049, section 4.2. 
Security considerations:

     See RFC 7049, section 10 [[RFC7049]]. 
Interoperability considerations:

    Not Applicable
Published specification:

    http://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/
Applications that use this media type:

     Any application that requires an identifier that is decentralized, persistent, cryptographically verifiable, and resolvable. Applications typically consist of cryptographic identity systems, decentralized networks of devices, and websites that issue or verify W3C Verifiable Credentials. 
Additional information:

    

Magic number(s):

    Not Applicable
File extension(s):

    .did
Macintosh file type code(s):

    TEXT
Person & email address to contact for further information:

    Ivan Herman <ivan@w3.org>
Intended usage:

    Common
Restrictions on usage:

    None
Author(s):

    Drummond Reed, Manu Sporny, Markus Sabadello, Dave Longley, Christopher Allen
Change controller:

    W3C

Fragment identifiers used with application/did+cbor are treated according to
the rules defined in .

  *[MAC]: Media Access Control

