Binding of Identity 9.2.1 Proving Ownership of a DID and DDO By itself, a verified signature on self-signed DDO does not prove ownership of a DID. It only proves the following: The DDO has not been tampered with since it was registered. The owner of the DDO controlled the private key used for the signature at the time the signature was generated. Proving ownership of a DID, i.e., the binding between the DID and the DDO that describes it, requires a two step process: Resolving the DID to a DDO according to its DID method specification. Verifying that the id property of the resulting DDO matches the DID that was resolved. It should be noted that this process proves ownership of a DID and DDO regardless of whether the DDO is signed. 9.2.2 Proving Ownership of a Public Key There are two methods for proving ownership of the private key corresponding to a public key description in the DDO: static and dynamic. The static method is to sign the DDO with the private key. This proves ownership of the private key at a time no later than the DDO was registered. If the DDO is not signed, ownership of a public key described in the DDO may still be proven dynamically as follows: Send a challenge message containing a public key description from the DDO and a nonce to an appropriate service endpoint described in the DDO. Verify the signature of the response message against the public key description. 9.2.3 Identity Owner Authentication and Verifiable Claims A DID and DDO do not inherently carry any PII (personally-identifiable information). The process of binding a DID to the real-world owner of an identity using claims about the owner is out of scope for this specification. However this topic is the focus of the verifiable claims standardization work at the W3C (where the term "DID" originated).
