Overview Conventional identity management systems are based on centralized
authorities such as corporate directory services , certificate authorities ,
or domain name registries . From the standpoint of cryptographic trust
verification, each of these centralized authorities serves as its own root of
trust . To make identity management work across these systems requires
implementing federated identity management . The emergence of distributed
ledger technology (DLT), sometimes referred to as blockchain technology,
provides the opportunity to implement fully decentralized identity management.
In this ecosystem, all participants with identities (called identity owners)
share a common root of trust in the form of a globally distributed ledger (or
a decentralized P2P network that provides similar capabilities). Each identity
owner can be identified on a ledger with a key-value pair . The index key is a
DID (decentralized identifier) and the value is its associated DDO (DID
description object). Together these form a DID record. Each DID record is
cryptographically secured by private keys under the control of an identity
owner (in the case of an owner-managed identity) or a guardian (in the case of
a guardian-managed identity). A corresponding public key is published in the
DDO using a key description. A DDO may also contain a set of service endpoints
for interacting with the identity owner. Following the dictums of Privacy by
Design , each identity owner may have as many DID records as necessary, to
respect the identity owner’s desired separation of identities, personas, and
contexts. To use a DID with a particular distributed ledger or network
requires defining a DID method in a separate DID method specification. A DID
method specifies the set of rules for how a DID is registered, resolved,
updated, and revoked on that specific ledger or network. This design
eliminates dependence on centralized registries for identifiers as well as
centralized certificate authorities for key management—the standard pattern in
hierarchical PKI (public key infrastructure ). Because DID records are on a
distributed ledger, each identity owner may serve as its own root authority—an
architecture referred to as DPKI (decentralized PKI) . Note that DID methods
may also be developed for identities registered in federated identity
management systems. For their part, federated identity systems may add support
for DIDs. This creates an interoperability bridge between the worlds of
centralized, federated, and decentralized identity.


