DIDs (Decentralized Identifiers) The foundation of DID architecture is the
concept of the decentralized identifier. This concept is not new; UUIDs
(Universally Unique IDentifiers) were first developed in the 1980s and later
became a standard feature of the Open Software Foundation’s Distributed
Computing Environment . UUIDs achieve global uniqueness without a centralized
registry service by using an algorithm that generates 128-bit values with
sufficient entropy that the chance of collision are infinitesimally small.
UUIDs are formally a URN namespace specified in IETF RFC 4122 . A DID is
similar to a UUID except: (a) it can be resolved or dereferenced to a standard
resource describing the identity owner (a DDO—see section 6), and (b) the DDO
may contain public key descriptions that enable cryptographic verification of
DID ownership. The Generic DID Scheme The generic DID scheme is a URI scheme
conformant with RFC 3986 . It consists of a DID followed by an optional path
and/or fragment. The term DID refers only to the identifier conforming to the
did rule in the ABNF below; when used alone, it does not include a path or
fragment. A DID that may optionally include a path and/or fragment is called a
DID reference. Following is the ABNF definition using the syntax in RFC 5234
(which defines ALPHA as upper or lowercase A-Z). did-reference = did [ "/"
did-path ] [ "#" did-fragment ]did = "did:" method ":" specific-idstring
method = 1*methodcharmethodchar = %x61-7A / DIGITspecific-idstring = idstring
*( ":" idstring )idstring = 1*idcharidchar = ALPHA / DIGIT / "." / "-" See
sections 5.3 and 5.4 for the ABNF rules defining DID paths and fragments.
Specific DID Method Schemes A DID method specification MUST define exactly one
specific DID scheme identified by exactly one method name (the method rule in
section 5.1). Since DIDs are intended for decentralized identity
infrastructure, it is NOT RECOMMENDED to establish a registry of unique DID
method names. Rather the uniqueness of DID method names should be established
via human consensus, i.e., a specific DID scheme MUST use a method name that
is unique among all DID method names known to the specification authors at the
time of publication. A list of known DID method names is included in Appendix
A. Since the method name is part of the DID, it SHOULD be as short as
practical. A method name of five characters or less is RECOMMENDED. The method
name MAY reflect the name of the distributed ledger or network to which the
DID method specification applies. The DID method specification for the
specific DID scheme MUST specify how to generate the specific-idstring
component of a DID. The specific-idstring value MUST be able to be generated
without the use of a centralized registry service. The specific-idstring value
SHOULD be globally unique by itself. The fully qualified DID as defined by the
did rule in section 5.1 MUST be globally unique. If needed, a specific DID
scheme MAY define multiple specific specific-idstring formats. It is
RECOMMENDED that a specific DID scheme define as few specific-idstring formats
as possible. DID Paths A generic DID path (the did-path rule in section 5.1)
is identical to a URI path and MUST conform to the ABNF of the path-rootless
ABNF rule in RFC 3986 . A DID path SHOULD be used to address resources
available via a DID service endpoint. See section 6.6. A specific DID scheme
MAY specify ABNF rules for DID paths that are more restrictive than the
generic rules in this section. DID Fragments A generic DID fragment (the did-
fragment rule in section 5.1) is identical to a URI fragment and MUST conform
to the ABNF of the fragment ABNF rule in RFC 3986 . A DID fragment MUST be
used only as a method-independent pointer into the DDO to identify a unique
key description or other DDO component. To resolve this pointer, the complete
DID reference including the DID fragment MUST be used as the value of the id
key for the target JSON object. A specific DID scheme MAY specify ABNF rules
for DID fragments that are more restrictive than the generic rules in this
section. DID Normalization For the broadest interoperability, DID
normalization should be as simple and universal as possible. Therefore: The
did: scheme name MUST be lowercase. The method name MUST be lowercase. Case
sensitivity and normalization of the value of the specific-idstring rule in
section 5.1 MUST be defined by the governing DID method specification. DID
Persistence A DID MUST be persistent and immutable, i.e., bound to an identity
owner once and never changed (forever). Ideally a DID would be a completely
abstract decentralized identifier (like a UUID) that could be bound to
multiple underlying distributed ledgers or networks over time, thus
maintaining its persistence independent of any particular ledger or network.
However registering the same identifier on multiple ledgers or networks
introduces extremely hard identity ownership and start-of-authority (SOA)
problems. It also greatly increases implementation complexity for developers.
To avoid these issues, it is RECOMMENDED that DID method specifications only
produce DIDs and DID methods bound to strong, stable ledgers or networks
capable of making the highest level of commitment to persistence of the DID
and DID method over time. NOTE: Although not included in this version, future
versions of this specification may support a DDO equivID property to establish
verifiable equivalence relations between DID records representing the same
identity owner on multiple ledgers or networks. Such equivalence relations can
produce the practical equivalent of a single persistent abstract DID. See
Future Work (section 11).


