Authentication Authentication is the mechanism by which an identity owner can cryptographically prove that they are associated with a DID and DID Description. See section 9.2. Note that Authentication is separate from Authorization because an identity owner may wish to enable other entities to update the DID Description (for example, to assist with key recovery as discussed in section 6.5) without enabling them to prove ownership (and thus be able to impersonate the identity owner). The rules for Authentication are: A DID Description MAY include a authenticationCredential property. The value of the authenticationCredential property should be an array of proof mechanisms. Each proof mechanism must include id, type, and owner properties. Each proof mechanism MAY be a key description of a valid public key or verification key. A list of standard key descriptions is included in Appendix C. A new key description MAY also be defined by a DID method specification. Example: { "@context": "https://example.com/did/v1", "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi", "authenticationCredential": [{ // this biometric can be used to authenticate as DID ...fghi "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi/biometric/1", "type": "PseudonymousBiometricTemplate2017", "owner": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi", "biometricService": "https://example.com/authenticate" "biometricTemplateShard": "Mjk4MzQyO...5Mzg0MDI5Mwo=" }, { // this key can be used to authenticate as DID ...fghi "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi/keys/1", "type": "RsaCryptographicKey", "owner": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi", "publicKeyPem": "-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY...END PUBLIC KEY-----\r\n" }] } Note that caching and expiration of the keys in DID Description authenticationCredential property is entirely the responsibility of DID resolvers and other clients. See section 9.6.
