11\. Future Work 11.1 Upper Limits on DID Character Length The current
specification does not take a position on maximum length of a DID. The maximum
interoperable URL length is currently about 2K characters. QR codes can handle
about 4K characters. Clients using DIDs will be responsible for storing many
DIDs, and some methods would be able to externalize some of their costs onto
clients by relying on more complicated signature schemes or by adding state
into DIDs intended for temporary use. A future version of this specification
should set reasonable limits on DID character length to minimize
externalities. 11.2 Equivalence Including an equivalence property, such as
equivID, in DDOs whose value is an array of DIDs would allow identity owners
to assert two or more DIDs that represent the same identity owner. This
capability has numerous uses, including supporting migration between ledgers
and providing forward compatibility of existing DIDs to future DLTs. In
theory, equivalent DIDs should have the same identity rights, allowing
verifiable claims made against one DID to apply to equivalent DIDs.
Equivalence was not included in the current specification due to the
complexity of verifying equivalence across different DLTs and different DID
methods, and also of aggregating properties of equivalent DDOs. However
equivalence should be supported in a future version of this specification.
11.3 Timestamps Verifiable timestamps have significant utility for identity
records. This is a good fit for DLTs, since most offer some type of timestamp
mechanism. Despite some transactional cost, they are the most censorship-
resistant transaction ordering systems in the world, so they are nearly ideal
for DDO timestamping. In some cases a DLT's immediate timing is approximate,
however their sense of "median time past" (see Bitcoin BIP 113) can be
precisely defined. A generic DDO timestamping mechanism could would work
across all DLTs and might operate via a mechanism including either individual
transactions or transaction batches. The generic mechanism was deemed out of
scope for this version, although it may be included in a future version of
this specification. 11.4 Time Locks and DDO Recovery Section 9.7 mentions one
possible clever use of time locks to recover control of a DID after a key
compromise. The technique relies on an ability to override the most recent
update to a DDO with Proof of Control applied by an earlier version of the DDO
in order to defeat the attacker. This protection depends on adding a time lock
(see Bitcoin BIP 65) to protect part of the transaction chain, enabling a
Proof of Control block to be used to recover control. We plan to add support
for time locks in a future version of this specification. 11.5 Smart
Signatures Not all DLTs can support the Proof of Control logic in section 6.5.
Therefore, in this version of the specification, all Proof of Control logic
must be delegated to DID method specifications. A potential future solution is
a Smart Signature specification that specifies the code any conformant DLT may
implement to process signature control logic. 11.6 Verifiable Claims Although
DIDs and DDOs form a foundation for decentralized identity, they are only the
first step in describing an identity owner. The rest of the descriptive power
comes through collecting and selectively using verifiable claims . Future
versions of the specification will describe in more detail how DIDs and DDO
can be integrated with—and help enable—the verifiable claims ecosystem. 11.7
Alternate Serializations and Graph Models This version of the specification
relies on JSON-LD and the RDF graph model for expressing a DDO. Future
versions of this specification MAY specify other semantic graph formats for a
DDO, such as JXD (JSON XDI Data), a serialization format for the XDI graph
model as defined by the OASIS XDI Core 1.0 specification .


