6.5. Proof of Control (Optional and Method-Specific) Proof of Control is the
mechanism by which an identity owner may give itself or other entities
permission to update the DDO—for example to assist with key recovery. Note
that Proof of Control is separate from Proof of Ownership as explained in
section 6.4. This is particularly important for key recovery in the case of
key loss, when the identity owner no longer has access to the keys described
using the owner property (section 6.4), or key compromise, where the owner’s
trusted third parties need to override malicious activity by an attacker. See
section 9. Because the access control logic in a Proof of Control block must
be implemented by the target distributed ledger or network, a DID method
specification MUST include its own Proof of Control rules and processing
logic. It is RECOMMENDED that all DID method specifications support the
generic Proof of Control rules specified in this section. A DID method
specification MAY add its own method-specific Proof of Control rules. The
generic Proof of Control rules are: A DDO MAY have exactly one property
representing Proof of Control. The key for this property MUST be control. The
value of this key MUST be an array. The values of this array MUST be defined
in a DID method specification. If a Proof of Control rule accepts a DID
without a fragment as a value, then an update signature verified with any key
in the owner of the DDO dereferenced from that DID MUST be considered valid
for Proof of Control. If a Proof of Control rule accepts a DID with a fragment
as a value, then: The fragment MUST identify a key description in the DDO
dereferenced from that DID. An update signature verified with the key in
target key description MUST be considered valid for Proof of Control. 6.5.1
"Or" Control To assert that any single member of a group of other DID owners
has permission to update the DDO, the control block array MAY contain a single
JSON object with two properties: A property type whose value is the string
OrControl. A property signers whose value is an array of DIDs with or without
fragments. If at least one update signature from a DID in this array is
verified, it MUST be considered valid for Proof of Control. 6.5.2 "And"
Control To assert that only all members of a group of other DID owners must
act together to update the DDO, the control block array MAY contain a single
JSON object with two properties: A property type whose value is the string
AndControl. A property signers whose value is an array of DIDs with or without
fragments. If update signatures from ALL DIDs in this array are verified, it
MUST be considered valid for Proof of Control. 6.5.3 "M-of-N" Control To
assert that a minimum number of members of a group of other DID owners must
act together to update the DDO, the control block array MAY contain a single
JSON object with three properties: A property type whose value is the string
MofNControl. A property minimumSignatures whose value is an integer
representing the minimum threshold of signatures required to act together. A
property signers whose value is an array of DIDs with or without fragments. If
the number of verified update signatures from DIDs in this array equals or
exceeds the value of minimumSignatures, it MUST be considered valid for Proof
of Control. Following is an example of a Proof of Control property
implementing these rules: { "control": [{ "type": "OrControl", "signer": [
"did:example:21tDAKCERh95uGgKbJNHYp", "did:example:8uQhQMGzWxR8vw5P3UWH1j" ]
}, { "type": "AndControl", "signer": [ "did:example:7P7xfv5AeTSSWcuq6hPptQ",
"did:example:X2v8rvzoCxayhYV5mhESQ1" ] }, { "type": "MofNControl",
"minimumSignatures": 2, "signer": [ "did:example:4XirzuHiNnTrwfjCMtBEJ6",
"did:example:iCGjJEChRbAdfZbGqZAYT7", "did:example:WUoAyXB7mhfcVESjypm5ty" ]
}] }


